---
created: 2000-02-28
reviewed: 2000-02-28
title: 0300.04 Reassignment of Administrative Employees
code: "0300.04"
---

For the purpose of this policy, “administrative employees” are defined as all certificated staff in administrative or supervisory positions within this district (i.e., principal, assistant principal, director of special services, etc.). This definition does not include the superintendent.

The board of trustees has the right to reassign administrative employees on a renewable contract to non- administrative positions with appropriate reduction of salary from preexisting salary levels. In the event the board of trustees reassigns an administrative employee to a non-administrative position, the board will give the employee written notice with a statement of the reasons for the reassignment. The employee, upon written request to the board, will be entitled to an informal review of that decision. The process and procedure for the informal review is set forth below.

## INFORMAL REVIEW PROCEDURE FOR REASSIGNMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE EMPLOYEES

The employee must request an informal review within ten (10) days of the date of notice of reassignment is mailed or hand-delivered to the employee. The employee will be given an opportunity to meet with the board of trustees in executive session within fifteen (15) days of the date of the request for informal review is received by the clerk of the board to explain why he/she disagrees with the board’s decision. The employee does not have the right to be represented by an attorney or a representative of the local or state teachers association, present evidence and cross- examine witnesses unless specifically agreed to by the board. The board will notify the employee, in writing, of its final decision in the matter within fifteen (15) days of the date of the informal review.
