---
created: 1995-07-10
updated: 2024-01-22
reviewed: 2024-01-22
title: 0300.01 Superintendent of Schools
code: "0300.01"
kind: Policy
legal: IC 33-513
---

The Superintendent of Schools is the Chief Executive Officer of the West Ada School District and shall be responsible for all day-to-day administrative operations.

The Superintendent shall hold a valid Administrative certificate with a Superintendent Endorsement which shall entitle him/her to administer the duties of the office. His/her term of employment shall be for a not to exceed three (3) years and will be reviewed annually no later than June 1, according to Idaho Code 33-513.

The Superintendent will faithfully implement the policies of the Board of Trustees in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations and the Mission and Vision of the District. In the absence of specified rules, the Superintendent shall assume authority and perform such duties in accordance with state laws.

Policy implementation will take the form of Administrative Regulations, which may be created, updated, or deleted as the Superintendent deems necessary so long as they conform to the following criteria:

- They shall be readily available to the public when in force.
- They shall clearly indicate the policy/policies they are designed to implement.
- They shall be presented to the Board of Trustees in Open Session no later than the next Regular Meeting.

Whenever necessary and appropriate, the Superintendent will represent the West Ada School District on behalf of the Board of Trustees, exercising the same duty of care, loyalty and obedience as the Board itself.
