---
created: 2017-11-14
updated: 2023-08-14
reviewed: 2023-08-14
legal: Idaho Code 33-1210, Idaho Code 74-101, Idaho Code 33-513, Idaho Code 33-514, Idaho Code 33-515, Idaho Code 33-518, IDAPA 08.02.02.007, IDAPA 08.02.02.026, IDAPA 08.02.02.027, IDAPA 08.02.02.121, Idaho Department of Education Guidelines
code: 0300.03A
title: School Administrator Evaluations
---

Effective evaluation systems recognize, promote and help develop efficient and successful administrators. The West Ada School District adopts this policy for School Administrator performance evaluations to ensure that all certificated School Administrators are evaluated on a fair and consistent basis. Multiple measures are utilized in which the evaluation criteria and procedures for the evaluation of certificated personnel are research based and aligned to the state-adopted evaluation instrument.

## Definitions

For the purposes of this policy, the following definition applies: “School Administrators,” also referred to as Administrative Personnel are those employees who hold a valid Idaho Administrative Endorsement and are employed in a school level administrative role.

## Purpose of Evaluations

The purpose for conducting employee evaluations is to improve student achievement by supporting teacher development. Evaluations assist in identifying employee strengths and weaknesses while providing direction and support for continued learning, professional development and overall job satisfaction and morale. Evaluations may also be used to document areas of improvement and to make decisions regarding personnel actions.

## Evaluation Criteria


- Domain 1: School Climate
    - School Culture
    - Communication
    - Advocacy
- Domain 2: Collaborative Leadership
    - Shared Leadership
    - Priority Management
    - Transparency
    - Leadership Renewal
    - Accountability
- Domain 3: Instructional Leadership
    - Innovation
    - Instructional Vision
    - High Expectations
    - Continuous Improvement of Instruction
    - Evaluation
    - Recruitment and Retention

## Evaluator

All individuals responsible for evaluating Administrative Personnel performance must have received training in administrator evaluations based on the statewide framework for evaluations. The Superintendent or Designee will be responsible for evaluating the school administrator. The school administrator will be responsible for evaluating assistant administrators and interns.

## Sources of Data

Professional Practice Eighty percent (80%) of the evaluation results, in the evaluation will consist of results based on the evaluation criteria identified above. As a measure to inform the Professional Practice portion of each evaluation, West Ada School District No. 2 Administrator Personnel evaluations shall include at least one (1) of the following:

- Parent/guardian input;
- Teacher and Classified staff input;
- Student input; and/or
- Portfolios

## Student Achievement

School administrators must receive an evaluation in which at least twenty percent (20%) of the evaluation results are based on multiple objective measures of growth in student achievement as defined in Section 33-1001, Idaho Code.

This portion of the evaluation may be calculated using current and/or past year’s data and may be one or both years of data.

## Evaluation Procedures

There will be a minimum of one (1) evaluation (Summative Evaluation) during each of the annual contract years of employment, which will be completed by the evaluator on or before June 1 of each year or as soon as possible after appropriate measurable student achievement data is completed.

## Communications of Results

The school administrator will be provided copies of his/her evaluations conducted by the Superintendent or Designee. The school administrator will have the opportunity to attach a response to his or her evaluation within five (5) days. The school administrator may file a written appeal based on the results of the evaluation to the Chief Human Resources Officer.

School administrator evaluations will be considered permanent records and will be maintained in each administrator’s personnel file. All evaluation records will be kept confidential as required by state and federal law.

The evaluation scores of individual administrator evaluations will be reported annually to State Department of Education as required for state and federal reporting purposes. Upon request pursuant to Section 33-1210[^ic-33-1210], the District will disclose evaluation records.

## Personnel Actions

The following actions may result if determined to be appropriate by the Board of Trustees:

- Renewal of employment contract;
- A letter of direction/commendation/reprimand/discretionary plan of improvement
- A period of probation only as applicable pursuant to Idaho Code;
- Immediate discharge;
- Renewal of employment contract under a continue probationary status; and/or
- Non-renewal of employment contract.

## Actions, Supports and/or Remediation

The district may provide opportunities for the identified administrator to make improvements through appropriate support. Such examples of possible district support and interventions may include but are not limited to the following or progressive in nature.


- Administrator and/or peer mentoring
- Online or live professional development opportunities
- Additional observations focusing on area(s) of concern
- Other

## Probation

The district may establish a period of probation for a school administrator whose performance is unsatisfactory. Matters relating to the employment and/or non- reemployment of such Administrative Personnel will be consistent with the provisions of the Idaho Code.

After the probationary period, consistent with provisions of the Idaho Code, action will be taken by the Board as to whether the school administrator is to be retained, immediately discharged, discharged upon termination of the current contract or reemployed at the end of the contact term under a continued probationary status.

## Monitoring and Evaluation

The Superintendent or Designee is responsible for ensuring that the evaluation process is in compliance with state requirements and implemented consistently. The Superintendent or Designee will continually review and develop the district’s school administrator evaluation system taking into account input from Trustees, Administrators, teachers, and parents where appropriate. Any changes to the district’s evaluation model will be approved by the Board of Trustees and submitted to the SDE for approval.

## Individualized Administrator Evaluation Rating System

Evaluations will be used to identify school administrator proficiency. The individualized school administrator evaluation rating system will have a minimum of three (3) rankings used to differentiate performance of school administrators:

- Unsatisfactory = 1
- Basic = 2
- Proficient = 3



