---
policy: ""
kind: AR
---

These are the administrative procedures for covering school-based communications, including website, newsletter,
and social media.

To support school-based communications, each principal will designate a media coordinator for the building called a
brand ambassador. The brand ambassador is responsible for managing the school’s website, newsletter, social media,
and other communications. This brand ambassador will be the District’s communications team point of contact within
the school building.

Each school’s website will include essential information, including staff contact information, school calendars,
registration information, resources, etc. With support from the District’s communications team, school-based
websites will be continuously updated.

All school buildings will have a newsletter that is digitally shared at least twice a month.. The building Principal or
designee shall be responsible for the creation of the newsletters each month. The building Brand Ambassador, unless
the building Principal has appointed an alternative designee, shall be responsible for ensuring the current newsletter,
and an archive of past newsletters, are available to view on the school's website.

All West Ada School District school buildings will be expected to maintain at least one social media account.
Additional social media accounts from the District approved social media list are optional.

The District’s website includes information for parents/guardians who choose to opt-out of their student’s image
being utilized by the communications team.

Emergency information will be coordinated by the Chief Communications Officer and the Superintendent or
Designee, working closely with law enforcement and/or emergency responders. These types of emergency
communications will be shared through text and voice call.
