~1103-AR(2): District - and School-Operation Social Media~
 1103-AR(2): District - and School-Operation Social Media Status:Status: ADOPTED


Original Adopted Date:Original Adopted Date: 09/26/2022 | Last Revised Date:| Last Revised Date: 10/23/2023 | Last Reviewed Date:| Last Reviewed Date: 10/23/2023

These are the administrative procedures for social media block removal for district- and school-based social media
profiles.

The social media block removal is only relevant to district-approved social media platforms. Once social media blocks
are removed, an individual will have the ability to monitor/post on social media profiles while logged into their
district credentials and/or from their district-provided device.

At the school building level, each Principal and Brand Ambassador shall have social media blocks removed. Principals
have the authority to grant various departments, activities, or athletics groups (e.g. building ancillary accounts)
permission to create a social media profile or profiles. Only one representative from the building ancillary account,
dictated by the building Principal, shall have their social media blocks removed.

At the district level, members of the Executive and Communications teams shall have social media blocks removed.
The Superintendent, or designee, has the ability to grant various district departments (e.g. district ancillary accounts)
permission to create a social media profile or profiles. Decisions regarding social media block removal for district
ancillary accounts will be made at the discretion of the Superintendent or designee.

Once an individual has received permission for social media accounts to be created, they must submit a Support
Desk request for their social blocks to be removed.

Original Adoption Date: 10/16/2023
Last Reviewed Date: 10/16/2023


BoardPolicyManual
WestAdaSchoolDistrict


