---
policy: “1001.20”
kind: Regulation
title: 1001.20-AR-01 Outside/Community Speakers - Request Form and Process
---

The following form and subsequent processes will be used for all outside/community speaker requests. A fillable form is located in the employee portal.

### OUTSIDE DISTRICT/COMMUNITY SPEAKER REQUEST FORM
Per policy 1001.20

Staff representative(s) __________________________________ Date ____________

Target audience __________________________ Approx. # of participants ________

Name of speaker(s) _________________________________ Email ______________

Organization affiliation (if relevant) _____________________ Phone ____________

Topic/Name of presentation ______________________________________________

Date(s) of visit __________________________ Time(s) _______________________


Explain how this presentation aligns with the WASD’s curriculum. Include specific standard(s):
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
#### Requirements
- The staff representative and administrator will conduct a full review of all lesson plans, presentations, materials, handouts, scripts, text, videos, flyers, etc.
- If considered a “controversial topic” (including any social emotional learning, well-being, sexual, or medical-based topics), the building administrator will contact the Chief Academic Officer for additional guidance prior to approval. Per policy 1001.20, a controversial topic is one in which there is a clearly recognized community division.
- A staff representative will be present during the entire presentation.
- The presentation will have a minimal impact on instructional time.

**_Return this form and the required materials to your Building Administrator a minimum of 2 weeks prior to event._**

---
Administrative Action Area
- Speaker Approved [ ]
- Speaker Not Approved [ ]

Comment (optional):
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
Administrator Signature: ___________________________ Date:_______________

**_Regardless of approval, an original copy will be filed with the building administrator and a copy sent to the
Chief Academic Officer_**
