---
created: 2002-04-22
reviewed: 2002-04-22
title: General Operation - School Nutrition Program
code: 0701.10
---


West Ada School District and the board of trustees acknowledges that the feeding of children is primarily a family responsibility. To supplement their efforts, every school will operate a school nutrition program to ensure that all students have affordable access to the varied and nutritious foods they need to stay healthy and learn well.

## PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS
During each regular school day the school nutrition program will offer breakfast and lunch to all students as well as break meals/snacks for the secondary school. Each school will make all students aware of these meal opportunities. In particular, the school will make efforts to ensure that families are aware of need-based programs for free or reduced-priced meals and that eligible families are encouraged to apply. The program will maintain the confidentiality of students and families applying for or receiving free and reduced-priced meals.

The school nutrition program will operate in accordance with the National School Lunch Act and the Child Nutrition Act of 1996 as amended and applicable laws and regulations of Idaho. Schools will offer varied and nutritious food choices that are consistent with the federal government’s Dietary Guidelines for Americans.

Upon a physician’s written request, modified meals will be prepared for students with food allergies or other special food needs. Information on the ingredients used in preparation of school meals and the nutritional value will be provided to parents upon request.

All school nutrition equipment and facilities must meet applicable local and state standards concerning health; safe food preparation, handling, and storage; drinking water; sanitation; and workplace safety.
