---
created: 2023-10-23
reviewed: 2023-10-23
legal: Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act of 2010,USDA Civil Rights Regulations and Policies
title: School Meal Charge
code: 0701.15
---

The District firmly believes in providing nourishment and support to all students in our care. One of the primary
goals of the District's nutrition program is to ensure that no student goes hungry while they are on the school's
premises. As part of the commitment to student well-being, it is the policy of the Board to:

1. Feed All Students:

a. Every student who enters our meal lines will be provided with a nutritious meal, regardless of their ability to
pay or any outstanding meal charges.
b. The District recognizes that hunger can affect a student's ability to learn and thrive, and we are dedicated to
fostering an inclusive and supportive environment for all students.

2. Parental Responsibility:

a. Parents/Legal Guardians are responsible for ensuring that their child's meal charges are paid promptly.
b. Charges may include unpaid meal balances, purchases of extra items, or charges incurred during special events
involving meals.

3. Communication and Notification:

a. The District will communicate the school meal charge policy to parents and legal guardians at the beginning of
each school year through informational materials such as school handbooks, and the District/School websites.
b. Reminders may be sent periodically to inform parents/legal guardians of any outstanding meal charges and
how to apply for free or reduced meals.

4. Confidentiality and Dignity:

a. The District understands that financial circumstances can vary for each family. All information regarding meal
charges, including outstanding balances and or qualification for free or reduced meals, will be treated confidentially
and with the utmost sensitivity.
b. Students will not be publicly identified or stigmatized for unpaid meal charges.

5. Payment Options:

a. Parents or legal guardians have the following options to pay for meal charge

1. Online payment portals. Parents/legal guardians can conveniently make payments through the District's
designated online payment system. Information is located on the School Nutrition Tab of the West Ada
School District Website.
2. Cash or check. Payments can be submitted to the school office or cafeteria cashier in a sealed envelope
with the student's name and ID number clearly marked. Payments can also be made in person at the
District Service Center.
3. Payment Plans/Assistance Programs. Parents or legal guardians facing financial hardship may contact
the District's Nutrition Services at the District Service Center to discuss possible payment arrangements
or available assistance programs. Families who are suffering from such financial hardships are also
encouraged to communicate with their student's assigned school counselor.

6. Outstanding Meal Charges:

a. If a student has outstanding meal charges, the District will make reasonable efforts to contact the parents or
legal guardians to resolve the matter.
b. Parents will receive regular notifications regarding the status of their child's meal account, including
outstanding balances.

7. Collection and Delinquency:

a. In the event that meal charges remain unpaid after reasonable attempts to resolve the issue, the District

reserves the right to employ appropriate collection measures, as permitted by state and federal regulations.
b. Collection measures that may be implemented by the District include, but are not necessarily limited to:
contact collection agenices or pursuing legal action, with the understanding that efforts will be made to avoid these
recourse options.

By implementing this policy, the District aims to ensure that all students receive the nutrition they need to succeed
academically and to maintain their well-being. We encourage open communication between parents/legal
guardians, school staff, and administrators to address any concerns or difficulties relating to meal charges, with the
goal of supporting each student's access to nutritious meals.

The District is an equal-opportunity provider.

