---
created: 2005-05-10
updated: 2019-01-16
reviewed: 2019-01-16
legal: Idaho Code 33-1501, and 33-1502; SISBO
title: General Operation
code: 0702.10
---

West Ada School District will operate its transportation department in compliance with the laws of the State of Idaho and consistent with the State Standards for Idaho School Buses and Operations (SISBO). Transportation policies and procedures will be detailed in the District’s Transportation Department Policies and Procedures Manual and will be reviewed annually by the Superintendent or designee. Any changes to transportation policy will be submitted to the Board of Trustees for approval.

## Accident & Student Citation Reports

All accidents or incidents involving district-owned or contractor owned vehicles must be reported to the Transportation Liaison in a timely manner. Student Citations given by the driver will be provided to a school official where the student attends on the working day following the issuance.

## Board Authorizations of Transportation

Each school year the Board of Trustees will approve the established bus routes and safety-busing areas for the coming school year no later than the regular August meeting of the board. The Board of Trustees delegates to the Superintendent or designee the authority to alter established bus routes during the school year as justified by changes in conditions or the number of students being transported.

## Proper Bus Conduct

It is the student’s responsibility to know and obey the bus rules as posted on every school district bus and outlined in the Student Handbook. Appropriate student behavior is essential for a safe and positive environment while transporting students. Students are expected to conduct themselves in an orderly manner while waiting for and riding on the school bus. The bus driver has the same rights and responsibilities to maintain order on the bus as the teacher does in the classroom and it is vitally important not to distract the driver from his/her driving duties. School bus drivers are responsible for informing students of the bus conduct rules and procedures while riding the bus, and every reasonable effort should be made by the bus driver to solve discipline problems before citations are written. Apart from behavior endangering the safety of the bus and/or its occupants, Parent contact should be made to address inappropriate student behavior prior to issuing a citation. Misbehavior on the bus or at the bus stop may deprive a student of their bus riding privileges.

## Records Maintenance and Reporting

The Contractor will maintain accurate records of all operations including bus runs, run mileage, categorized bus mileage, student rider counts, maintenance/repair records, and other related records necessary to documents safety and financial accountability. Information will be made available to the Department of Education for audit purposes upon request and shall be retained for a minimum of four (4) years, including the current fiscal year.

## Student Eligibility for Bus Service

West Ada School District adheres to the guidelines for student eligibility for transportation services as defined in Idaho Code 33-1501 and 33-1502, and in the Standards for Idaho School Buses and Operations (SISBO) manual. The district will provide transportation for all students who live within the attendance boundary, and outside the one and one half mile walk zone radius around each assigned traditional school. Special cases of eligibility for bus transportation will be determined by the Superintendent or designee. No multiple/alternating address stops will be created for a student. Each student will have one assigned pick up location and one assigned drop off location.

A licensed day care center as defined in Section 39-1102, Idaho Code, may substitute for the student’s residence for transportation to and/or from school. Students may not be transported between a childcare facility and home. In order to qualify for transportation between a child care facility and school, the child care facility must be within the attendance boundary and more than one and one-half miles from the assigned school.

A student whose Individualized Education Plan (IEP) or 504 Accommodation Plan requires transportation as a related service may be eligible for transportation anywhere within the attendance zone. Requests for stops at non-licensed child care within a pupil’s attendance boundary will be considered for a student whose Individualized Education Plan

(IEP) or 504 Accommodation Plan requires transportation as a related service. This includes care by a family member within the second degree of relationship (father, mother, step-father, step-mother, grandparents and their spouses, uncles and aunts and their spouses, first cousins and their spouses, nephews and nieces and their spouses, brothers and sisters and their spouses).

Students who fail to respect the rights and safety of others by not obeying the bus rules of conduct may lose the privilege of riding the bus. (Policy Code No. 702.57)

## Supervision of School Loading/Unloading Zones

The school principal shall provide adequate supervision of loading and unloading areas at their site during the loading and unloading of school buses. Supervision should be appropriated to the size of the loading/unloading area and the number of students present to ensure close, continuous and interactive supervision whenever students and/or buses are present in the loading area.

## Zero Tolerance

Students in violation of any zero tolerance rules will be referred to the appropriate school administrator and may lose bus riding privileges.
