---
created: 2009-01-13
updated: 2014-08-26
reviewed: 2014-08-26
title: 0702.40 Extra-curricular activities
code: "0702.40"
kind: Policy
---

All trips related to the school must be approved by the administration.

- Activity trips involving twenty (20) or more students will require that the group travel in a State approved vehicle. The group will make every effort to share a bus with another school in the area.
- It is recommended that a commercial bus be used if and when groups have more than twenty (20) students and are traveling 200 miles or more in radius from their school. Exceptions must be approved thirty (30) days in advance of the trip.
- Private vehicles may be used for extra-curricular activities only when the number of students involved in the trip does not exceed nineteen (19). When private vehicles are used, the building administrator must approve the driver(s), and keep a record of the vehicle description, time and date of trip and a list of passengers. Private vehicles must be driven by a school staff member or a responsible adult appointed by the principal. All passengers must have a signed parental permission slip turned in prior to riding in the private vehicle. The driver must furnish evidence of adequate insurance and possess a valid unrestricted driver’s license.
- Private vehicles may be reimbursed for fuel costs once receipts are turned into the building administration.
- When student groups of thirty or less travel by air to a destination, the following ground transportation rules apply:

    - Vehicles (cars, mini-vans, large SUVs or coaches) must be rented from car rental agencies. Rental of 15-passenger vans is prohibited. Additional liability insurance is to be purchased at the time of rental.
    - The drivers of the rental vehicle(s) must be twenty-five (25) years of age and must furnish evidence of liability insurance and a valid, unrestricted driver’s license. The drivers of the vehicles must be approved     by the building principal.
    - Parent permission authorizing a student to ride in such vehicle must be on file with the building principal for each student involved in the trip.

- A detailed itinerary must be approved by the school administrator and transportation department at least one week on advance of trip. Any last minute changes to previously approved trips must re-approved by transportation. The itinerary must be adhered to once approved.

Transportation requisitions for special buses for extra-curricular activities must be filed by the teacher or coach, approved by the principal and the District Transportation Liaison, and sent to the administration office the week before the transportation will be required, except in case of emergency.

- Bus transportation is restricted to authorized activities only.
- A faculty member or chaperone with no driving responsibilities must accompany each bus to and from all approved school sponsored activities.
