---
created: 2001-08-13
reviewed: 2001-08-13
title: 0401.50 Substitute teachers
code: "0401.50"
---

## HIRING

All substitutes are hired from an approved list compiled by the superintendent or designee. Teachers do not notify, pay or dismiss substitutes.

## DUTIES

All substitute teachers will report to the school principal immediately. The principal will notify them of their assignments and provide detailed instruction.

Substitute teachers are expected to assume the same duties and extra assignments of the regular teacher, unless specifically excused by the principal.

It is the regular teacher's responsibility to have lesson plans for the substitute teacher to follow. The substitute teacher will continue to prepare advance lesson plans when the absence is for an extended period of time.

The substitute teacher will check all daily work assigned to students. At the completion of the day, the substitute will leave a note for the absent teacher describing essential accomplishments including, but not limited to, work completed, notices sent home and general discipline.

The hours of work of the substitute teacher are the same as those of the regular teacher.

The substitute teacher will be paid by the district, in accordance to an established substitute teacher’s salary schedule.

## DISCIPLINE

Substitutes will be expected to become familiar with and operate within the philosophy of discipline established by the principal in the school of assignment. The following general suggestions are offered:

- Be firm, but friendly.

- Don't make threats that cannot be enforced.

- Do not strike a child in any manner, nor administer corporal punishment. Contact a building administrator for help with disruptive students.

- Administer discipline fairly. Avoid uses of sarcasm or ridicule.

- The best way to avoid discipline problems is to be as prepared as possible and to make the class interesting.

## PUBLIC RELATIONS

As is true for the regular teacher, the substitute teacher plays an important role in developing and maintaining a good relationship between home and school. In all dealings with parents and students, substitutes are representing the school.

## CARE OF CLASSROOM

Substitute teachers are responsible for re-establishing the physical arrangement of the classroom at the end of each school day and assisting the janitor by picking up trash from the floor, closing windows, and in general leaving a clean, neat classroom.

## FIRE DRILLS

Substitute teachers should become familiar with building fire drill procedures, know which exit and route the class is to take, and to what area of the school grounds the class is to assemble. The grade book should be taken in order to call roll outdoors and ensure that no students are left inside. Always wait for an "all clear" signal before reentering the building.

## SALARY COMPENSATION

The rate of pay for substitutes will be reviewed and established on an annual basis by the board of trustees. Substitutes who work past the established l/2 day will be paid at the full day rate. This does not include lunchroom duty.

A certified substitute who replaces the same contracted teacher twenty consecutive days or more is considered a long term substitute. In such cases the substitute will be paid at the regular rate until a total of twenty days has been reached, after which point the long term rate will be paid retroactively from the starting date. Every thirty days of consecutive long term substituting, the substitute may have one day break in service without it affecting the long term pay.

The rate of pay for a long term substitute will be established by the board of trustees on an annual basis.

A non-certified substitute may not work over 20 days on the same assignment.
