---
created: 2009-02-10
updated: 2023-05-22
reviewed: 2023-05-22
legal: Code of Idaho,33-1224, 16-1619, 16-1620, 33-6001
title: 0401.20 Duties and responsibilities
code: "0401.20"
kind: Policy
---

## General
Teachers shall be directly responsible to the principal of the building to which they are assigned, then to the superintendent and the district board of trustees. See district organizational chart for specific lines of authority and responsibilities.

It is the duty of the teacher to be informed concerning rules, policies, and code of ethics, and regulations of the State of Idaho, the State Board of Education, and the district board of trustees as well as applicable federal laws and regulations.

At all times, teachers will base their own actions, their instruction, and expectations which they place upon students on the highest moral standards and ideals.

IDAHO DIGNITY AND NONDISCRIMINATION IN PUBLIC EDUCATION ACT

The Idaho Legislature has enacted the Dignity and Nondiscrimination in Public Education Act with the stated intent that the administrators, faculty members and other employees and students in public schools respect the dignity of others, acknowledge the right of others to express differing opinions and foster and defend intellectual honesty, freedom of inquiry and instruction and freedom of speech and association. All staff are expected to follow the express language and intentions stated in law. (Section 33-138, Idaho Code).

It is the position of the District that this law does not prevent a discussion with a student should a student or guardian raise issue regarding the student’s: religion or religious beliefs, political affiliation, sex/sexual orientation or gender identity, ethnicity, race, color, national origin or a student’s medical history or status.

Further, it is the position of the District that Health Services Staff or other District personnel may engage in discussion regarding a student’s medical status during the provision of medical care, when addressing medical emergencies or to provide for the student’s safety.

STUDENT SURVEYS No surveys or questionnaires of any kind may be given in the district without prior approval of the building principal or designee. The District may prepare a list of pre-approved inquiries that personnel may use in surveys, without obtaining prior approval of the building principal or designee. Any additional questions must receive approval from the building principal or designee. A standard survey may also be pre-approved by the principal or designee for an entire department, grade, or school’s use.

For the purpose of this policy, the term “survey” shall include, but not be limited to any student inventory, questionnaire or other document of personal inquiry, including any start of the year or start of a course inventory. This term shall not include any test, quiz or educational inquiry of a student relating to progress in a course.

When a survey has been approved by the building principal or designee, the choice of student participation shall be left to the student and/or family/guardian of the student. Accordingly, a student shall be provided with at least 24 hours to complete a survey. When a survey has been administered, school personnel will take steps necessary to assure student privacy associated with survey responses of a confidential nature.

Personnel are expected to comply with the Protection of Pupil Rights Amendment (PPRA) regarding any potential survey, inventory, or other such similar inquiry. Further, any survey administered must follow the Idaho Dignity and Nondiscriminatory in Public Education Act.

STUDENT DISCIPLINE

All teachers are expected to assume responsibility for the discipline of their groups and to assist in the correction of other irregularities that may occur at school or at school sponsored activities. As members of the faculty, teachers are charged with the responsibility of informing students regarding building rules and procedures as well as general rules of conduct.

SECURING A SUBSTITUTE

Teachers are to report the need for a substitute as early as possible.

No teacher is to call a substitute and pay for such services from personal funds.

USE OF DISTRICT-OWNED PHYSICAL PROPERTY

Regarding the teaching of controversial issues, personnel are directed to Policy 602.20.

Policy 100.1 and the Code of Ethics for Idaho Professional Educators shall be read consistently with this Policy. Nothing contained in this policy limits any employee or student of the District from exercising lawfully recognized independent speech or association rights, consistent with all other Policy and as appropriate in a limited public forum public school setting or engaging in instruction of subjects consistent with the District’s Policy and approved curriculum. This provision is directed solely regarding the use of the District’s physical property.

School property shall not be used by personnel for the advancement of individual beliefs. It is the desire of the District that the physical environment of District facilities be content neutral, conducive to a positive learning environment and not a distraction to the educational environment.

The West Ada School District, on behalf of its employees, students, and parents, consistent with the Idaho Code, firmly believes the flag of the United States of America should be proudly displayed in every classroom of its schools. West Ada also believes that all physical property of the District should encourage a positive learning environment, and the classroom arranged in such a manner to support the instructional goals and District-approved curriculum. To foster these goals, the only other flags, or banners (including posters, signs, pictures or other digital or physical images) that may be flown, posted, or affixed to the physical property of the District will be content neutral and conducive to a positive learning environment. Examples include, but are not limited to:

- The current Idaho state flag;

- Flags or banners used as part of a temporary unit of student instruction within the approved curriculum:

    - Such flag or banner shall present factually accurate historic events;

    - Flags of countries representing the nations of the world temporarily used for educational purposes     as approved by the building principal or designee;

- Displays that are used as a routine part of the class-approved curriculum or in aid of learning - i.e., periodic table, mathematical equations, the U.S., or Idaho Constitution, motivational posters;

- Displays that denote a recognition of achievement by the District, School, or class and approved by the building principal or designee;

- School or District sports tournament flags or banners, recognizing the participation of a school team;

- Content promoting post-secondary educational opportunities from colleges, or universities or professional sports teams;

- Student works/student artwork may be used as part of a temporary display, so long as such artwork is not otherwise in violation of District Policy;

- Information from Student Clubs in displays approved by the building principal or designee, consistent with Policy 503.20;

- Classroom activity photos, consistent with FERPA requirements;

- Personal family photographs of school employees;

- Promotional materials from athletic and activities sponsors as approved by the Superintendent or designee.

Any questions relating to the appropriateness of materials shall be directed to the Superintendent or designee. Any patron complaint shall be addressed through the Policy 203.3, Patron Grievances.

The Administration is delegated authority to develop procedures to implement this policy.

CARE OF PROPERTY

Principals, teachers, and students can make a significant contribution to the maintenance of attractive buildings and school grounds. Teachers are responsible for the proper use of school property committed to their care and custody. Students should be trained to respect school buildings and materials.

Loss or damage of equipment should be reported immediately to the building principal.

No school equipment is to be loaned to outside parties without the permission of the principal, superintendent, or designee.

Teachers are expected to assist the custodian by turning out lights, closing and locking the windows, and by drawing the shades to the height specified, upon leaving the room at the close of the day.

IN-SERVICE TRAINING

General faculty meetings, called by the administration and involving all school certificated personnel, may be held on school time.

EXTENDED SICK LEAVE

In all cases, if absence from work exceeds a period of ten (10) consecutive working days, the certified and administrative employees must furnish to the Human Resources Director a doctor’s certification that medical complications are such that the employee is unable to carry on his/her duties satisfactorily. When an employee returns to work from an absence of ten (10) consecutive days, a medical release from the employee’s health care provider must be submitted to Human Resources. The release should include any accommodations that are necessary for the employee to resume work.

(Certified Leaves are described in the Master Contract)

