---
created: 2009-03-17
updated: 2023-08-14
reviewed: 2023-08-14
legal: Idaho Code §§ 33-513, 33-514, 33-515, 33-518;  Idaho Code Title 74, Chapter 1 (Public Records Exemptions);  IDAPA 08.02.02.007, .027, .120;  Idaho SDE Local District Evaluation Model and Guidelines
title: 0401.30 Supervision and Evaluation
code: "0401.30"
statutory: True
kind: Policy
---

The Board of Trustees is committed to improving the quality of instruction and increasing the levels of student learning. The primary focus for improving instruction and student learning is through the process of supervision and evaluation. This process also provides a sound basis for making decisions with regard to professional growth, continued employment, transfer options and other opportunities within the District. Thus, the Board of Trustees is responsible for adopting a consistent process for supervision and evaluation of all certificated staff. This process shall be evaluated annually in conjunction with progress monitoring of the Districts Continuous Improvement Plan and may exceed the requirements as set forth in Idaho Statutes and Idaho Administrative Code.

## DEFINITIONS

For the purposes of this policy, the following definitions apply:

- **Certificated instructional employee(s)**: also referred to as teachers, are those employees who are currently teaching in a West Ada school district classroom/school and hold a valid Idaho instructional teaching certificate.

- **Certificated non-instructional employee(s)**: are those employees who are required to hold a valid Idaho instructional teaching certificate or a valid Idaho pupil personnel services certificate , but do not meet the definition of certificated instructional employees.

- **Days**: for the purpose of this policy shall mean working or school days and not calendar days.

- **Category contract personnel**: are those certificated employees who are employed on a Category 1, Category 2, Category 3 or a Retired certified personnel contract.

- **Renewable contract personnel**: are those certificated employees who are employed on a renewable certified personnel contract.

## PURPOSE OF EVALUATIONS

The purpose for conducting employee evaluations is to improve student achievement by supporting certified personnel development. Evaluations assist in identifying certified personnel strengths and weaknesses while providing direction and support for continued learning, professional development and overall job satisfaction and morale. Evaluations may also be used to document areas of improvement and to make decisions regarding personnel actions.

## EVALUATION CRITERIA

1. Domain 1: Planning and Preparation
    1. Demonstrating Knowledge of Content and Pedagogy
    1. Demonstrating Knowledge of Students
    1. Setting Instructional Outcomes
    1. Demonstrating Knowledge of Resources
    1. Designing Coherent Instruction
    1. Designing Student Assessments

2. Domain 2: The Classroom Environment
    1. Creating an Environment of Respect and Rapport
    1. Establishing a Culture for Learning
    1. Managing Classroom Procedures
    1. Managing Student Behavior
    1. Organizing Physical Space

3. Domain 3: Instruction
    1. Communicating with Students
    1. Questions and Discussion Techniques
    1. Engaging Students in Learning
    1. Using assessment in instruction
    1. Demonstrating Flexibility and Responsiveness

4. Domain 4: Professional Responsibilities
    1. Reflecting on Teaching
    1. Maintaining Accurate Records
    1. Communicating with Families
    1. Participating in the Professional Community
    1. Growing and Developing Professionally
    1. Showing Professionalism
    1. Collaboration

## EVALUATOR

Building administrators are responsible for the supervision and annual evaluation of the certificated instructional employees and the certificated non-instructional employees through a defined process. Each building administrator shall receive annual training in the supervision and evaluation process as presented by District administration. Additionally, ongoing instruction shall be provided to building administrators during monthly leadership training meetings as written in the Board approved Continuous Improvement Plan.

## SOURCES OF DATA

**Professional Practice**

Eighty percent (80%) of the evaluation results in the evaluation for all certificated instructional staff will consist of evaluation results based on Professional Practice standards and will be aligned to the Charlotte Danielson Framework for Teaching Second Edition or, for certificated non-instructional staff, be based upon the certificated non-instructional staff members national standards. The measures included within the Professional Practice portion of the evaluation will include a minimum of two (2) documented (written) observations annually, with at least one (1) observation completed prior to January 1 of each year. In situations where certificated staff are unavailable for two (2) documented classroom observations, due to situations such as long-term illness, late year hire, etc., one (1) documented classroom observation is acceptable.

At least one of the following will also be included as a measure to inform the professional practice portion of all certificated instructional and certificated non-instructional employee evaluation:

1. Parent/Guardian input;
2. Student input; and/or
3. Portfolios

**Student Achievement**
Twenty percent (20%) of all Certificated Instructional Employee evaluations will be based on measurable student achievement, as defined in Section 33-1001, Idaho Code, as applicable to the subjects and grade ranges taught by the instructional staff. Twenty percent (20%) of all Certificated Non-Instructional Employee evaluations will be based on measurable student achievement or student success indicators, as defined in Section 33-1001, Idaho Code, as applicable to the position. Consideration of the basis for measurement of student achievement or student success indicators will be made at the local building level, requiring input from the certificated staff member impacted and approval by the building administrator. This portion of the evaluation will be documented in each individual certificated employee’s individual professional learning plan.

## EVALUATION PROCEDURES

No contract shall be issued for the next ensuing year until such time as the certificated employee’s formal written evaluation has been completed.

Prior to January 1, the administrator will conduct a documented observation and provide written feedback to the certificated employee. Prior to the completion of the final evaluation a minimum of one additional observation will be conducted by the administrator with written feedback to the certificated employee.

There will be a minimum of one (1) documented evaluation during each contract year of employment for all certificated staff. This evaluation shall be completed on or before May 1st of each school year.

For renewable contract personnel, the evaluation procedure shall be as follows:

1. The administrator will complete the required observations as described above.

2. The administrator will complete a documented evaluation during each contract year of employment for all certificated staff as described above.

3. If the documented evaluation during the first year of this policy (2017-18 school year) or the first year the certificated staff member becomes a renewable contract personnel (Initial Year) results in an overall rating of proficient, this evaluation will stand for a period of three years.

4. During the 2nd and 3rd year, an evaluation similar to the evaluation in the Initial Year will be given to the employee. However, Domains 2 and 3 may be modified to allow a mark of distinguished, if warranted, during these years.

5. In the 2nd and 3rd year “Coaching Period” the administrator and certificated employee will work together to develop an individual continuous improvement plan for the certificated employee. The intent of this plan is to give the certificated employee the opportunity to focus on specific areas of instructional practice that leads to increased student achievement. The administrator will act as the certificated employee’s coach during the Coaching Period and will provide the necessary support and tools needed for the certificated employee to be successful in this plan.

6. The following additional procedures will apply to the Coaching Period:

    1. If a teacher certificated employee changes schools, the first year in the new school will be an Initial Year

    1. If a situation arises where administrator or a certificated employee determine that the Coaching Period is not working and wish to change the Coaching Period back to an evaluative year the following procedure applies:

        1. This decision must be made on or before November 1.

        1. The person initiating this decision must provide notice to the other person in writing on or before November 1.

        1. This decision will not be grounds for a grievance by either party

    1. If a certified employee receives a letter of reprimand or a letter of concern (Letter) during the Coaching Period the following procedure applies:

        1. The components of the evaluation that relate to the Letter will be evaluative during the remaining of the year in which the concern arose.

        1. If the letter was received in the first year of the Coaching Period, the second year will not be a Coaching Period and will be an evaluative year.

Nothing in this policy is intended to limit the number of evaluations that an administrator may choose to perform for any certificated staff members. In the situations where a staff member is struggling in their job, it is the expectation that the administrator would prepare an evaluation for the certificated employee to discuss and develop a course of action to assist the certificated employee to be successful in their position.

**Certificated Non-Instructional Personnel** All of the above evaluation procedures will apply to certificated non-instructional personnel. The evaluation tool for certificated non-instructional personnel will be differentiated in a way that either aligns with the Charlotte Danielson Framework for Teaching Second Edition to the extent possible or is aligned with the certificated non-instructional staffs national standards.

## COMMUNICATION OF RESULTS

The employee will be provided with copies of all documented observations conducted for the employee.

Within five (5) days of the documented observation, the building administrator will provide a written report of the observation to the certificated employee. The certificated employee will have the opportunity to attach a response to his or her observation report.

Certificated personnel evaluations and the dates of written observations will be considered permanent records and will be maintained in each employee’s personnel file. All evaluation records will be kept confidential as required by state and federal law.

The evaluation scores of individual certificated personnel evaluations will be reported annually to the State Department of Education as required for state and federal reporting purposes. Upon request pursuant to Section 33-1210, the District will disclose evaluation records.

## PERSONNEL ACTIONS

The following actions may result if determined to be appropriate based upon a completed evaluation of certificated personnel:

1. Renewal of certified personnel contract;

2. Letter of concern, Letter of reprimand or discretionary plan of improvement;

3. A period of probation only as applicable to certificated employees employed under a Category 3 or a Renewable certified personnel contract;

4. Immediate Discharge;

5. Renewal of certified personnel contract under a continued probationary status; and/or

6. Non-renewal of certified personnel contract

Any recommendation to place an employee on a period of probation, discharge the employee immediately, discharge the employee upon termination of the current contract, or reemploy the employee at the end of the contract term under a continue probationary status contract must be approved by the Board of Trustees.

Nothing in this policy shall be read to impact the district’s right to immediately, without an evaluation or period of probations, discipline an employee up to and including immediate discharge for reasons other than unsatisfactory performance.

## ACTIONS AND SUPPORTS/REMEDIATION

Within a discretionary plan of improvement (Level 1 or Level 2 Improvement Plan) or a probationary plan for improvement, the district will provide opportunities for the identified certificated personnel to make improvements through such support to help him or her be successful in the classroom. Such examples of possible district support and intervention may include, but are not limited to the following:

1. Administrator and/or peer mentoring
2. Classroom observations in other selected teachers’ classrooms
3. Online or live professional development opportunities
4. Additional observations focusing on area(s) of concern
5. Other

## PROBATION

The district will not establish a period of probation for certificated employees, employed under a Category 1, Category 2 or Retired certified personnel contract whose performance is unsatisfactory. Matters relating to the employment and/or non-reemployment of such category contract employees will be consistent with the provisions of Section 33-514, Idaho Code.

The district will establish a period of probation for certificated employees, employed under a Category 3 or Renewable certified personnel contract as provided under the provisions of Sections 33-514 and 33-515, Idaho Code.

## APPEAL

Within five (5) days from the date of the annual evaluation post conference with their administrator, the certificated employee may file a written appeal of any portion of the Evaluation Form. The written appeal shall state the specific content of the Evaluation Form with which the certificated employee disagrees, a statement of the reason(s) for disagreement and the amendment to the Evaluation Form requested.

If a written appeal is received by the administrator within five (5) days, the administrator shall conduct a meeting with the certificated employee within a period of five (5) days. During such meeting the certificated employee may present specific evidence and discuss any and all disagreement with the Evaluation Form as noted in the written appeal. If deemed appropriate by the administrator, the administrator may engage in investigative activities and or observation activities (time permitting) necessary to address the written appeal. Nothing in this policy requires the administrator to engage in investigative or observational activities.

Upon conclusion of such meeting, the administrator has a period of five (5) days to provide the certificated employee with a written response either amending the Evaluation Form or stating the reason(s) why the administrator will not be amending the Evaluation Form, or some combination thereof depending upon each individual situation.

If the administrator chooses to amend the Evaluation Form, then the amended copy of the Evaluation Form will be provided to and signed by the certificated employee. The amended Evaluation Form will then be forwarded to the Superintendent or Designee for placement in the certificated employee’s personnel file.

If the administrator chooses not to amend the Evaluation Form, the Evaluation Form, along with the written appeal, including the certificated employee’s provided evidence, and Administrator’s response, will be forwarded to the Superintendent or Designee for placement in the certificated employee’s personnel file.

If the professional certificated employee is not satisfied with any/all changes to the evaluation, the certificated employee may appeal to the Superintendent or Designee. Such appeal will be limited to two considerations:

- whether or not the evaluating administrator engaged in the proper process in evaluating the certificated employee; and

- whether or not the evaluating administrator considered any of the evidence provided by the impacted staff member.

Such appeal will not revisit nor address the evaluating administrator’s judgment as to the evaluation marks received by the evaluated certificated employee nor the weight/judgment the evaluating administrator gave to any evidence provided by a certificated employee when preparing or reviewing the evaluation in this process. Any review by the Superintendent or Designee beyond these specifically enumerated purposes will be at the sole discretion of the Superintendent or Designee. Inclusion of this statement in this policy does not require the Superintendent or Designee to expand review beyond the specifically identified purposes of this level of review.

All documentation relating to this final level of appeal shall be included in the certificated employee’s personnel file.

The written appeal process shall not prevent the District from addressing an administrative recommendation for probation and/or non-renewal of a contract. If a certificated employee seeks to pursue a written appeal when a recommendation for probation or a recommendation for non-renewal is pending, the certificated employee shall consent to waive any applicable statutory timelines to address such action by the Administration and/or Board. When disagreement exists regarding the results of the evaluation but the certificated employee does not wish to pursue the above appeal process, the affected certificated employee is entitled to attach a rebuttal of his or her evaluation, which will be placed in the certificated employee’s personnel file with the Evaluation Form.

Nothing herein contained will prevent a professional certificated employee from informally discussing the evaluation with his/her evaluator in an effort to resolve the disagreement on any/all scores/rankings in question.

A certificated employee who is placed on probation, immediately discharged, or not reemployed is entitled to full due process of rights as provided by Idaho Code Sections 33-513 through 33-515.

## MONITORING AND EVALUATION

The Superintendent or designee is responsible for ensuring that the evaluation process is in compliance with state requirements and implemented consistently. The Superintendent or designee will continually review and develop the district’s personnel evaluation system taking into account input from Trustees, Administrators, teachers, and parents where appropriate. Any changes to the district’s evaluation model will be approved by the Board of Trustees and submitted to the SDE for approval.

## PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING

The district will provide ongoing training for administrators and certificated personnel regarding the evaluation standards, tools and processes. All individuals responsible for evaluating certificated instructional staff and certified non-instructional staff performance will receive training in conducting observations and evaluating effective teacher performance.

## COLLECTING AND USING DATA

Aggregate data will be considered part of this District’s and its individual schools’ needs assessment in professional development offerings. The District will report the summative rankings, the number of components rated as unsatisfactory, whether a majority of the certificated personnel’s students met their measurable student achievement targets or student success indicators as well as what measures were used, and whether an individualized professional learning plan is in place for all certificated personnel to the State Department of Education annually for state and federal reporting purposes.

## CERTIFICATED PERSONNEL EVALUATION RATING SYSTEM

Evaluations will be scored based upon the following rating system:

Domains 1 and 4:
1. Unsatisfactory = 1
2. Basic = 2
3. Proficient = 3

Domains 2 and 3:
1. Unsatisfactory = 1
2. Basic = 2
3. Proficient = 3
4. Distinguished = 4
