---
created: 2004-01-13
updated: 2018-05-01
reviewed: 2018-05-01
code: "0401.13"
title: 0401.13 Certified Transfers
---

## Voluntary Transfers

Building positions are filled on the basis of the certified employee’s certification, endorsements and highly qualified (HQ) status. An open position is defined as a position unfilled after the building’s master schedule is completed. All open positions will be posted on the district’s web page under Employment Opportunities.



- Voluntary Transfer applicants interested in moving from one building to another, must log onto the district’s online application system, attach a current resume to the internal application and apply for transfer to the specified job within the seven (7) day vacancy posting.

- A transfer request does not facilitate a request to change one’s assignment from teacher to counselor, teacher to administrator or to any other specialized assignment.

- Voluntary Transfer applications will be sorted by Human Resources. If fewer than five (5) transfer applicants request to be considered for an opening, a hiring manifest consisting of voluntary transfer applicants and others from the Involuntary Transfer pool and/or general applicant pool will be forwarded to the principal or supervisor.

- A minimum of seven (7) applicants from the Voluntary Transfer List or Involuntary Transfer pool will be placed on the hiring manifest for any one open position. If more than one position for which the applicant is qualified is available at a building, a single interview will suffice.

- Teachers on a Level II improvement plan or probation will not be considered for Voluntary Transfer.

- Teachers on a Level I improvement plan can be considered for transfer if both principals agree to the transfer. The growth plan will be reviewed and may be modified by the new administrator and/or the improvement team.

## Involuntary Transfers

The involuntary transfer procedure applies to staff members identified as certified staff in excess of FTE allocation in a given school, department/content certification within department, or program. This procedure only applies when a certified staff member must transfer to another building. Teacher placement within a building is at the principal's discretion.

If the total district has surplus staff, then the Reduction in Force (RIF) Policy, 401.15, will be activated and will have precedence over the involuntary transfer and reassignment policy.



- Nothing in this policy prohibits voluntary transfers from occurring if the person holding the eliminated position followed the voluntary transfer procedures as described above.

- Teachers requesting a transfer and involuntary transfer teachers will be given equal opportunity to transfer to a new location.

- All positions are posted on the district’s website under “Employment Opportunities”.

## Involuntary Transfer Procedure

When the district determines that there is a surplus of professional staff in a building, the person with the least building seniority in the identified surplus certification area will be transferred to another school in the district where there is an appropriate vacancy. If a tiebreaker is required, district seniority will take precedence.

## Seniority Defined

Building seniority is defined as continuous years in a building with the following exceptions: employees transferring to another building in the district shall be credited with as much as three (3) years of their district experience to be applied to their building seniority.

## New Schools

When opening a new school, the following criteria will apply:



- No more than 40% of certified staff from any one grade level (K-6), department (7-12), or program (K-12) within an existing school may transfer to the new school if there are three (3) or more staff currently assigned.



- No more than 50% of certified staff from any one grade level (K-6), department (7-12), or program (K-12) within an existing school may transfer to the new school if there are two (2) staff currently assigned.



- 100% of certified staff from any one grade level (K-6), department (7-12), or program (K-12) within an existing school may transfer to the new school if there is only one (1) staff member currently assigned.

Exceptions to the above criteria will be determined by district administration due to extenuating circumstances.

## Assignments/Certification

In the event a staff member must be placed in a certification area for which she/he is certified but has not had teaching experience or major preparation, she/he will have the opportunity to request a different assignment the following year by following the voluntary transfer process.

An employee shall not be assigned to a position outside the area(s) authorized by certification requirements of the Idaho Department of Education. If no appropriate vacancy is available for a person on the involuntary transfer list, then Reduction in Force (RIF) for that individual’s primary assignment will be initiated.

## Secondary School Exceptions:

Personnel assigned as head coaches, choir, band, cheerleading, student council, drama, debate, speech, newspaper, yearbook, drill team, athletic trainer in the secondary schools and middle school athletic/activity coordinator shall be exempt from this policy and will continue to be assigned by the Chief Human Resources Officer.

