---
created: 2009-07-21
reviewed: 2009-07-21
title: Contracted Shared and/or Part-Time Positions
code: "0401.14"
---

Teachers who wish to share a single staff position and/or work on a shared-time basis shall submit a written request to the building principal. Following a principal-teacher conference on the request, the principal may recommend that a shared-time contract be issued to the applicant(s), subject to the following conditions:

- The shared-time teacher(s) and the building principal shall agree on the division of professional duties and of instructional responsibilities.

- Shared and/or part time teachers shall attend all conferences and in-service activities as if they were full-time employees. Attendance at meetings will be administered at the building level by the principal in conjunction with the certified employee. For time worked beyond the contract, part time teachers will be paid at the teacher training rate of pay as defined in the Master Contract.

- If one of the partner-teachers in a shared position is unable to fulfill the contract, the remaining partner will be given the opportunity to assume a full-time contract for the balance of the school year. Should the remaining partner-teacher wish to remain shared-time, the district shall attempt to hire a shared-time replacement for the balance of the school year. If the district is unable to hire a qualified shared-time replacement, the remaining partner-teacher is obligated to assume a full-time contract for the balance of the school year.

- If, at the end of the year, one of the partner-teachers in a shared position resigns or applies for full-time reassignment, the remaining partner-teacher must resign, apply for full-time reassignment, or reapply with another partner-teacher.

- Each shared-time teacher’s salary will be prorated on what he/she would be entitled to if employed on a full- time basis. Each shared-time teacher will receive prorated employer-paid benefits specified for certificated personnel in the Master Contract between the Meridian Education Association and West Ada School District.

- Sick leave and personal leave will accrue and accumulate on a half-day basis for all shared-time teachers.

- Re-assignment to full-time employment will follow procedure defined in the current Master Contract.

- In the event a shared or part time teacher is absent, every attempt will be made to hire a qualified substitute.

Shared-time teaching positions established because of curricular demands and/or circumstances shall be subject to the conditions of employment established for all other shared-time positions.
