---
created: 2011-05-10
reviewed: 2011-05-10
legal: Code of Idaho,33-513, 33-514, 33-515
title: 0401.15 Reduction in Force
code: "0401.15"
---

## General Statement of Policy

The Board of Trustees has the responsibility to maintain outstanding public elementary and secondary schools and to implement the educational interest of the state, consistent with state and federal educational requirements. However, recognizing also that a reduction may become necessary to eliminate certificated staff positions in certain circumstances, this policy is adopted to provide a fair and orderly process should such a reduction become necessary.

## Reasons for Elimination of Certificated Staff Positions

The Board of Trustees has the sole and exclusive prerogative to eliminate certified staff positions consistent with the provisions of the state statutes.

Elimination of certified staff positions may result from the following examples or from other conditions necessitating reductions:

- Decrease in student enrollment

- Decrease in program enrollment

- Changes in curriculum

- Financial conditions or limitations of the District.

The need for implementation of a Reduction in Force (RIF) and/or the elimination of certified positions is left to the sole discretion of the District’s Board of Trustees.

The Board of Trustees may choose to implement a RIF through:

- The elimination of an entire program or portions of programs:

- The elimination of positions in certain grade levels only;

- The elimination of positions in an overall review within a building;

- The elimination of positions in an overall review of the District;

- The elimination of positions through other considerations and implementation decisions;

- The elimination of a portion or percentage of a position(s) or

- Any combination of the above.

## Definitions

This policy and procedures shall apply to all employees who hold a certificate issued by the Idaho State Board of Education who are employed in a teaching or administrative position, below the rank of Superintendent. Certified staff reductions will be based on the teachers’ current teaching assignment or in the case of teachers on leave, it will be based on their last teaching assignment.

## Procedures

Prior to commencing action to terminate certified staff contracts under this procedure, the Board of Trustees will give due consideration to its ability to effectuate position elimination and/or reduction in staff by:

- Voluntary retirements

- Voluntary resignations

- Transfer of existing staff members

- Voluntary leaves of absence

Reductions in force will be calculated at the building level. Staff identified for a Reduction in Force shall be placed in the pools identified in Employee Groups, and positions will be assigned as available.

Employee Groups - for the purpose of implementing a reduction in force under this policy, personnel shall be

grouped using system-wide employee groups as follows:

- Pre-K – 5 school teachers;

- 6-8 middle school teachers grouped separately by certification areas* (e.g., language arts teachers);

- 9-12 high school teachers grouped separately by certification areas* (e.g. high school math teachers);

- K-12 teachers grouped separately by special subject certification areas (e.g., physical education, health, music teachers);

- Professional-technical education teachers grouped separately by certification areas (e.g., electrical trades, masonry, auto body, horticulture teachers) *e.g. principals, instructional supervisors/directors, media coordinators, counselors, speech/language specialists, school psychologists, school social workers, and special education teachers.

Certified staff with a current evaluation will be given a priority in a reduction in force. Personnel returning from leave will be ranked according to their most recent evaluation and placed after existing staff according to that ranking. Certified employees on Board-approved leaves of absence shall be subject to all provisions of this policy.

In the event a reduction-in-force is required, certified staff who are retained pursuant to this policy may be reassigned if suitable position openings are available in instructional areas for which they are certified and Highly Qualified and for which the principal has approved transfer as per Idaho Code requirements.

If the funding for specially funded positions is reduced or eliminated, certified staff paid by the special funds may be reduced or eliminated.

In the Board of Trustees’ determination as to the individuals to be released pursuant to the Reduction in Force, consideration may be given to the following criteria:

- Certified staff evaluation, including components required by state statute to be encompassed in certified staff evaluation.

- Area(s) of certification for which the certified staff is Highly Qualified and are classified by the District as “Hard to Fill” positions.

- Number of areas of certification for which the certified staff is Highly Qualified.

- Educational/Degree Status.

- National Certifications Held.

- Position as a Lead or Master Certified staff within the District.

- Whether or not the certified staff is highly qualified in a course necessary for High School Graduation requirements.

- Whether or not the certified staff is highly qualified in a course necessary for middle school advancement.

- Contribution and/or involvement in extra-curricular or co-curricular positions with students.

- Compliant with Professional Standards and Conduct over the course of the last five consecutive years.

The Board of Trustees’ intention is that the applicable criteria be given a point value for consideration in the implementation of this RIF policy. The appended chart, which is adopted and incorporated as part of this policy, identifies the specific point values for each of these areas of consideration.

For each certified staff subject to RIF consideration based upon the Board of Trustees method of implementation, a Certified Staff Profile shall be developed by the HR department, applying the criterion to each respective certified staff.

The factors for consideration shall be reviewed on an annual basis by the District’s Administration to determine whether factors should be added or eliminated, or weighted differently. Such recommendations for modification will then be brought before the Board of Trustees for consideration.

The Human Resource Department shall advance notice of the possible Reduction in Force to all certified staff who may be released, based upon the number of certified staff who may be released, in whole or in part, and the school programs, certified staff positions or categories of positions that may be affected.

With this notification, the Human Resource Department shall provide a copy of the Certified Staff’s Profile, utilizing the established point system, and the steps certified staff should take if they believe that there is an error in their individual Certified Staff Profile.

If certified staff receiving a Certified Staff Profile believe that there is an error that has been made on their individual profile, the certified staff shall notify the Human Resource Department of their concern in writing, by the close of the school day on the third school day after the Certified Staff Profile has been delivered to the certified staff or the certified staff’s mailbox. This written notice shall specifically identify what element(s) of the Certified Staff Profile is believed to be erroneous and explain specifically why the element(s) is believed to be in error.

If the Human Resource Department receives notice of possible error, each such written notice, timely received, shall be individually reviewed for possible reconsideration or evaluation of the information used to create the Certified Staff Profile. This may include a member of the District’s or School’s Administration communicating directly with the certified staff to obtain more information or documentation relating to the alleged error.

- If the Human Resource Director determines that an error was made in completion of the Certified Staff Profile, a new profile will be created and forwarded to the certified staff in question.

- If the Human Resource Director determines that no error was made in completion of the Certified Staff Profile, the certified staff shall be notified of this determination.

- The certified staff shall have a period of three school days to file written notice of an appeal of this decision to the District’s Superintendent. Thereafter, the Superintendent or designee of the Superintendent shall review the dispute, in whatever manner the Superintendent/designee deems appropriate for the circumstance, and make a final decision on the issue of the appeal and questioned error of the Certified Staff Profile.

If the Board of Trustees determines that a RIF in fact will be implemented, the Superintendent shall submit a list of the certified staff recommended for release, and shall make recommendation to the Board as to what due process, if any, the Board needs to implement for each individual personnel situation.

All releases shall be done in conformance with the applicable provisions of the Idaho Code and all affected certified staff will be promptly notified, in writing, of the Board of Trustees’ decision or actions that need to be taken by the Board relating to applicable due process activities, if any.

