---
created: 2014-06-24
updated: 2014-06-14
reviewed: 2014-06-14
title: 0401.16 Certificated Personnel Problem Solving Mechanism
code: "0401.16"
---

The Board of Trustees acknowledges that it is most desirable for a certificated, non-administrative employee and the appropriate supervisor/administrator to resolve problems through free and informal communication prior to initiating the problem solving mechanism.

The purpose of this mechanism is to secure equitable solutions to the problems which may, from time to time, arise and cannot be resolved informally. Both parties agree that these proceedings will be kept as informal and confidential as may be appropriate at any level of the procedure.

## DEFINITIONS

A **_grievance_** shall be defined as a written allegation of a violation of the Master Agreement or a violation of current Board approved written district policy. A certificated employee may not grieve a written evaluation.

A **_day_** , as used in this problem solving mechanism for certificated employees, shall be defined as any day school is in session within the regular school year as shown on the official school calendar. If the grievance extends beyond the regular school year, a **_day_** means any day, Monday through Friday, exclusive of holidays.

## GUIDELINES

If a certificated employee chooses to file a grievance, said employee shall present the grievance in writing to his or her Region Director. This must be completed within six (6) working days of the personnel action giving rise to the grievance or no grievance will be processed in accordance with this policy. A written grievance shall meet the following specifications:

- It shall be specific.

- It shall contain a synopsis of the facts giving rise to the violation of the Master Agreement or current Board approved written district policy.

- It shall contain the specific section of the Master Agreement or current Board approved written district policy which has allegedly been violated.

- It shall state the relief requested.     - It shall contain the date of the alleged violation.     - It shall be signed by the certificated employee filing the grievance.

The Region Director shall review the written grievance with the immediate supervisor and schedule a meeting with the certificated employee filing a grievance within five (5) working days of receipt of the written grievance to provide a verbal and written response.

If the certificated employee is not satisfied with the response of the Region Director or if there is no response within the timelines, the employee may appeal the grievance to the District’s Human Resources Director or designee. This must be done within five (5) working days of the meeting to provide a verbal and written response or within five (5) working days from the date the Region Director last had to respond if the certificated employee received no verbal or written response. Failure to meet this time limitation will result in the conclusion of the processing of the grievance and no further action will be taken.

Within six (6) working days of an appeal, the Human Resources Director or designee shall communicate with the certificated employee and shall provide a written response to the certificated employee. The decision of the Human Resources Director shall be the final and conclusive resolution of the grievance.

## REPRESENTATION

A certificated employee filing a grievance shall be entitled to a representative of the employee’s choice at each step of the grievance procedure. The immediate supervisor, Region Director, or Human Resources Director or designee shall also be entitled to a representative at each step of the problem solving mechanism.

## TIMELINES

The timelines of the problem solving mechanism may be waived or modified by written mutual agreement.

## LEGAL APPEAL

Utilization of the problem solving mechanism shall not constitute a waiver of any right of appeal available pursuant to law or regulation.

## RETALIATION

Neither the Board of Trustees nor any member of the administration shall take reprisals affecting the employment status of any party in interest, unless such individual, through the use of the problem solving mechanism, is discovered to have engaged in conduct which justifies disciplinary action (i.e. the person against whom a grievance was filed has engaged in inappropriate conduct which served as the subject matter of the grievance). The grievant likewise shall take no reprisals against any individual involved in the problem solving process.

## REVISION

The administration will work collaboratively with the association should a revision to this policy be necessary. This collaboration will occur prior to any revisions being presented to the school board.
