---
created: 2009-03-17
reviewed: 2009-03-17
legal: Code of Idaho,46-224,
title: Leaves of absence without pay
code: 0401.40
---


## HEALTH LEAVE

Upon written request, the board of trustees may grant a leave of absence for personal or family health reasons. Health leave shall be for a maximum of one (1) year. A certified employee who is granted health leave will not be guaranteed a specific position and is only guaranteed a certified position, subject to the Reduction in Force (RIF) policy.

## CONTRACT LEAVE

Upon written request, the board of trustees may grant contract leave for a minimum of one (1) semester and a maximum of one (1) year.

Certified employees are eligible for contract leave after completing five (5) consecutive years of full time service without another unpaid leave of absence. The use of contract leave of any length requires that the employee complete another five (5) years of full time service before becoming eligible for another contract leave.

Contract leave will not be granted for employment by another school district.

Not more than ten percent of the certified employees in any given building may be granted contract leave at any one time.

A certified employee who is granted contract leave will not be guaranteed a specific position and is only guaranteed a certified position subject to the RIF policy.

## GENERAL INFORMATION

Certified employees on unpaid leave must submit in writing prior to February 1st their intent to return to the district the following year.

Unpaid leaves of absence may only be granted for one (1) complete school year.

A certified employee on an unpaid leave of absence retains existing contract status and sick leave accumulation as of the date the leave begins. Further accrual does not take place while on leave.

While on leave the employee has the right to continue the insurance coverage at the employee’s expense.

