---
created: 2012-06-19
updated: 2017-07-11
reviewed: 2017-07-11
title: Scholarship Program
---

# 0401.19 

## CERTIFIED

Certified employees currently under contract may apply to the District for reimbursement. The district will pay up to $65.00 per credit for the tuition for courses taken for re-certification and/or for courses taken to fulfill a degree program. A maximum of $1,000.00 per certified employee per year will be distributed. Scholarship reimbursement is provided for the cost of credits only, not books or fees. Claims for reimbursement should be submitted as soon as the final grades are posted. Funds will be distributed on a first come first serve basis. To receive the reimbursement payment the employee must provide copies of the class description, proof of successful completion and receipts showing expenses incurred. June classes will be eligible for reimbursement during the next school year. When the budget for scholarships is exhausted, no additional funds will be paid for the remainder of the fiscal year. If an employee uses the scholarship program after school is out for the summer and does not return to the district, he/she must refund to the district the amount received that summer.

## ADMINISTRATIVE

Each administrator has the opportunity to access a professional development fund to use to support his or her building goals. Each building has the opportunity to access a professional development fund to use to support the building goals. These monies will be accessible as long as the state professional development funding is available.

