---
created: 2007-05-08
updated: 2012-03-13
reviewed: 2012-03-13
legal: Code of Idaho 33-1201 thru 33-1210, 33-513
title: Contracts and Supplemental Contracts
code: 0401.10
---


## CONTRACTS

West Ada School District adopts Idaho Code as policy regarding contracts for certificated professionals only.

Upon delivery of a proposed contract, such person shall have ten (10) calendar days from the date the contract is delivered in which to sign the contract and return it to the Board.

If an individual hired for a certified position is not certified by September 30th, that individual’s employment may be terminated.

Certified staff must provide the Human Resource Department the original copy of their current Idaho certificate, official transcripts and written verification of previous certified employment.

## SUPPLEMENTAL CONTRACTS

When issuing Supplemental Contracts, West Ada School District adopts Idaho Code as policy regarding supplemental contracts.

## CONTRACT SEPARATION
The process for separation of a certificated professional employee from the District will follow the provisions provided by the Idaho Code with regard to termination and/or non-renewal of a Standard Teacher Contract.

## RESIGNATION/RETIREMENT/RELEASE

A certificated professional employee who desires to be released from a contract shall submit, in writing, a request  to be released coupled with a resignation or retirement notification.    The submission should be received by the District at least thirty (30) days in advance of the desired release date.   ﻿

The determination whether an employee will be granted a mid-year release from contract will be based upon the District's ability to locate and retain a suitable replacement and the best interest of the student's educational activities. ﻿

Retirement from the District shall conform to the policy and procedures for public employees in the state of Idaho (PERSI).  


