---
created: 2009-02-10
updated: 2014-01-28
reviewed: 2014-01-28
legal: Code of Idaho,33-1217, 67-5333
title: Vacations, Holidays, Absences, and Leaves
code: "0402.41"
---

## VACATIONS

Classified salaried employees who are employed on a regular basis 239 days or more per year and who work 4 hours or more per day, shall receive 10 days full time equivalency paid vacation, which will be accrued on a monthly basis at .83 days per month. Any employee who works less than 7½ hours per day accrues vacation time on a prorated basis.

YEARS

MONTHLY ACCRUAL
(days per month)

ANNUA
L
ACCRU
AL

ANNUAL
MAXIMUM
1-5 .83 dpm 10 days 15.0 days
6 .91 dpm 11 days 16.5 days
7 1.00 dpm 12 days 18.0 days
8 1.08 dpm 13 days 19.5 days
9 1.16 dpm 14 days 21.0 days
10 1.25 dpm 15 days 22.5 days
Allow 18 months to be accrued

New employees must have completed 90 days of satisfactory service before being eligible to draw vacation time. After 90 days, vacation time will be credited retroactive to the initial employment date, at the rate of .83 days per month. Part-time employees who work less than 4 hours per day and/or less than eleven months per year are not eligible for paid vacation.

Vacation time may not be taken two weeks prior to the first day of school or within the first two weeks of the first day of school. Vacation time is to be taken on consecutive days unless otherwise authorized by the superintendent.

When an employee no longer works for the district, all accrued and unused vacation leave will be paid to the employee in his final paycheck. Vacation payout will not be paid using funds from Federal programs.

## HOLIDAYS

Full time, permanent classified employees qualify for holidays or equivalent compensation as follows:

- Employees who are employed 163-168 days (secretaries, library assistants, teachers, transportation, and food service personnel) receive 4 paid holidays which include: Labor Day, Thanksgiving, Christmas, and New Year’s.

- Year-round employees (those with 221 or more day employment: including custodians, maintenance, district staff and some secretaries and bookkeepers) receive 6 paid holidays including July 4, Labor Day, Thanksgiving, Christmas, New Years, and Memorial Day.

- Instructional assistants employed 181-216 days receive 5 paid holidays, which include Labor Day, Thanksgiving, Christmas, New Years, and Memorial Day.

- Employees must work either the day before or the day after a holiday to receive holiday pay. If the employee uses paid leave (i.e. sick, personal, or vacation), it is considered a paid day of work and they will be paid for the holiday. If the employee is on a leave without pay status the day before or the day after a holiday, they will not receive holiday pay.

Instructional assistants may be required to attend in-service or workshop sessions, or other duties as assigned by the principal or supervisor. Calendars for most job categories are distributed to the employees and are available in the district’s personnel department.

## SICK LEAVE

All regular classified employees working 20 hours or more per week accrue sick leave time at the rate of one prorated day for each month of service or major fraction thereof. Unused sick leave may be accumulated up to 260 days. Employees with fifty (50) or more sick leave days as of June 30 will receive one (1) additional personal leave

day. Termination of employment shall terminate sick leave rights except as provided for in Idaho Code 33-1216, 33- 1217, 33-1228.

Sick leave is to be used for absences caused by illness or disability of the employee, or illness or disability of immediate family members of the employee including, the employee’s spouse, dependent or minor children or parents. Complications of pregnancy or childbirth may result in absences for which sick leave may be taken. It is anticipated that for normal child birth a period of no more than six (6) calendar weeks of sick leave following the birth of the child will be required. For a C-section, it is anticipated that no more than eight (8) calendar weeks will be required. Additional days of approved sick leave require a doctor’s certification and approval by the Assistant Superintendent. If family illness outside the immediate family should arise, sick leave may be used with the approval of the building principal.

In all cases if absence from work exceeds a period of five (5) consecutive working days, the employee must furnish to Human Resources a doctor’s certification that medical complications are such that the employee is unable to carry on his/her duties satisfactorily. When an employee returns to work from an absence of five (5) consecutive days, a medical release from the employee’s health care provider must be submitted to Human Resources. The release should include any accommodations that are necessary for the employee to resume work.

When an employee transfers from one school district to another or from a school district to a state education agency, the district will accept an individual’s accumulated sick leave from another district in Idaho up to that district’s maximum number of sick leave days and not to exceed the number allowed in our Master Contract. However, a maximum of 90 days of transferred sick leave can be counted toward PERSI retirement. All Transfers of sick leave can only be counted if the employee is employed during the school year immediately following the year of their resignation/termination from the previous district. (See Idaho Code section 33-1217). If an employee goes from a state education agency to a school district, no sick leave is available for transfer. (See Idaho Code section 67- 5333).

## PERSONAL LEAVE

Regular classified employees that work more than 20 hours per week earn two (2) days of prorated personal leave per year. Regular classified employees that have worked continuously for the district for ten (10) years shall be granted one (1) additional personal leave day per year. The maximum number of days that can be used in any one (1) year shall be for six (6) days. Unused personal leave may accumulate from year to year up to a maximum of six (6) days. At the end of the school year personal leave days in excess of six (6) shall be paid to the employee at the prorated amount of $60 per day for fulltime work. Personal leave must be arranged in advance and approved by the building administrator. Personal leave days may not be taken the last two (2) weeks of school.

## BEREAVEMENT LEAVE

The board agrees to grant to each employee up to five (5) days of bereavement leave for each death in the immediate family (grandfather, grandmother, father, mother, brother, sister, husband, wife, child, grandchild, foster or step child, father-in-law, mother-in-law, step-parent, step-sibling, aunt, uncle, cousin) for the purpose of attending services, travel and/or emotional support of family.

Additional time may be granted under unusual circumstances. Requests for additional time must be directed through the principal to the superintendent.

## PARENTAL LEAVE

Parental leave of absence for child-rearing may be granted to classified and administrative employees, without pay, for up to one year. Requests for parental leave of absence shall be submitted in writing, indicating the approximate beginning and ending dates. Parental leave and extended parental leave approvals are subject to availability of qualified, acceptable substitutes.

Although parental leave of absence may be granted at any time, it is recommended that leave conform to logical breaking points such as a grading period or vacation period. When appropriate, parental leave of absence shall end at such time that the employee returns to work at the beginning of a semester.

The employee may return to the district in a position for which she/he is qualified, but is not guaranteed the same position and assignment previously held.

Supervisors are authorized to make decisions regarding employee unpaid leave for non-contract classified employees who work less than 4 hours per regular work day.

## UNPAID LEAVE

Unpaid leave may only be used after personal days and vacation days have been used. If the leave qualifies for sick leave, all sick leave must be used prior to requesting and /or being granted unpaid leave

Supervisors are authorized to make decisions regarding employee unpaid leave for non-contract classified employees who work less than 4 hours per regular work day.

Requests for leave without pay from non-contract classified employees working 4 hours or more per day must be submitted and approved by the Director of Human Resources and the board of trustees prior to the date(s) requested; those requests due to emergency and/or extenuating circumstances may be approved by the immediate supervisor and then approved by the board.
