---
created: 2009-03-17
updated: 2015-11-17
reviewed: 2015-11-17
references: P402_40 Addendum C School Nutrition, P402_40 Addendum B, P402_40 Addendum A 15-16

title: Fringe Benefits & Salary
code: 0402.40
---


Vertical advancement on the salary schedule is limited to one step per year and will be based on an employee receiving a satisfactory evaluation. It is not automatic and occurs only through action by the board of trustees. Employees that work for less than 230 days at 20 hours or more a week must work for a full semester in order for it to count for one (1) year of experience. Employees that work for 230 days or more at 20 hours or more a week must be employed prior to December 31st in order for it to count for one (1) year of experience.

Placement up to six (6) years on the salary schedule will be granted if the new hire employee provides documentation of work experience following the criteria as outlined below:



- Work experience must be related to the particular job assignment.

- Work experience must have occurred within the last seven (7) years.

- Work experience must be at the same education level (elementary, middle, or senior), if applicable.

- Documentation must be on official or business letterhead from the previous employer(s).

- Documentation should include years of service and job responsibilities.

- Documentation should be submitted to the Human Resources Department at the District Office.

- Work experience must exceed half time for eligibility.

- Documentation must be received in the Human Resources Department within three months from the time employee begins working. It is the employee’s responsibility to provide documentation.

If experience step(s) are granted, the hourly increase will be retroactive to initial hire. If the district has frozen classified steps for any reason, the steps granted for initial placement for the new hire will be reduced by the number of steps that have been frozen.

To ensure that the proper step and grade is recorded, a payroll change form must be submitted to the Human Resources Department.

Terms and conditions of salary in this policy supersede all previous salary schedules. There are no other agreements or understandings not contained in this policy and all communications, understandings, agreements - expressed or implied - not embodied here shall be and are null and void and of no legal or enforceable effect. Nothing in this policy shall restrict the district’s right to contract or subcontract out work currently being performed by classified employees. This reserved right is without qualification; there is no district obligation to bargain as to any contracting or subcontracting decision and the impact thereof. This is understood to be a waiver of the right to demand decisional and impact bargaining.

Employees new to the district will be placed on the proper salary schedule by Human Resources. Positions new to the district must have a job description and then be assigned to a salary schedule after review by the assistant superintendent and Human Resources. For salary schedules, refer to APPENDIX A.

Information on vacations, holidays, absences and leaves are covered in policy 402.41.

## FRINGE BENEFITS

West Ada School District offers a benefit package for employees. Enrollment in this program is not automatic; each qualified new hire must enroll in the program and make coverage choices during the first month of employment. Enrollment forms are available at the Human Resources Department. Enrollment data changes may be made annually during open enrollment.

Benefits will be paid for permanent full time classified employees who are hired under terms of the district and hired to work more than five (5) continuous months. The following are minimum requirements to qualify as full time:



- Paraprofessionals: at least 7.5 hours/day (excluding lunch)

- Custodians, maintenance: 8 hours/day (excluding lunch)

- District office staff: 8 hours/day (excluding lunch)

- Food service personnel at a school: 20 hours or more per week (Hired prior to 2/2/15)

- Food Service personnel: 8 hours/day (excluding lunch) hired after 2/1/15



- Secretaries: 8 hours/day (excluding lunch)

Employees who work less than four (4) hours per day, noon-duty assistants, crossing guards, and overcrowded classroom assistants are not eligible for fringe benefits.

## PRORATED BENEFITS

Employees, who work fewer than the minimums given for full time employment and who work 20 hours or more per week, will receive benefits on a prorated basis. The employee will be charged for the remaining corresponding portion of the district’s cost for the benefit on a monthly basis.

## TUITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM

Classified Employees have a $10,000 Tuition Assistance Program which is used to pay for classes, workshops, seminars, certification examinations or competency assessments that are directly related to the job position they hold with the district. Employees are entitled to 60% of total cost of class, exam, books and/or study guides. If the class cost is $60 or less, 100% of the class, exam, books and/or study guides will be paid. Each employee may receive a maximum of $500 a year. Classes, workshops and seminars must be completed in the same school year as reimbursement is requested. Employees on leave are not eligible for tuition assistance. Applications are available from the District Office or through the Meridian Classified Employees Association. Tuition Assistance monies are district funds, overseen by the Classified Executive Board with final approval by the assistant superintendent or designee.

If funds are still available as of June 1, the executive board and the assistant superintendent will meet to review additional requests from that school year. This includes those who have exceeded the $500 maximum.

## SECTION 125 CAFETERIA FLEXIBLE BENEFITS PLAN

For each full-time classified employee, the board agrees to provide employer-paid fringe benefits as follows:



- Employee $50,000 term life insurance with accidental death and dismemberment.

- Employee health program (employee contributes $25 per month).

- Employee Short Term Disability

Carriers and plans shall be mutually determined by the district and the teachers’ association.

Each full-time classified employee may annually set aside a portion of their wages, up to the maximum amount allowable under the Internal Revenue Code for Medical Reimbursement and for Dependent Care using the Flexible Spending Plan. This amount may be allocated for benefits for themselves and/or their dependents.

The individual changes in allocation of benefits or payroll deductions may be made annually during open enrollment, except for family status changes.

## CAREER ENHANCEMENT

Eligibility for Career Enhancement is determined by total years of service in West Ada School District.

- Step 15 with 15-19 years in district will receive $600.00 annually.

- Step 15 with 20-24years in district will receive $900.00 annually.

- Step 15 with 25-29 years in district will receive $1,200.00 annually.

- Step 15 with 30+ years in district will receive $2,400.00 annually.

Employees who are on step 15 but less than 15 years of service will not receive compensation until they have worked 15 years.

Due to budget reductions, movement on the career enhancement ladder was frozen for three years. “Years in district” does not reflect the amount you are receiving on your paycheck.




