---
created: 2010-10-12
reviewed: 2010-10-12
title: Return to Work
code: "0403.24"
---

This policy is in place to ensure West Ada School District (herein referred to as “the District”) provides meaningful work activity for employees who are temporarily unable to perform all, or portions, of their regular work assignments or duties. This policy applies to employees suffering from either work related injury or illness. The goal is to allow District employees to return to productive, regular work as quickly as possible. By providing temporary transitional or modified work activity, injured employees remain an active and vital part of the School District. Studies show that a well –constructed Return to Work Policy reduces lost time days, allows workers to recover more quickly and makes for a more positive work environment.

All active employees who become temporarily unable to perform their regular job due to a compensable work related or non-work related injury or illness may be eligible for transitory work duties within the provisions of the program. Return to work tasks may be in the form of:

- Changed duties within the scope of the employee’s current position

- Other available jobs for which the employee qualifies outside the scope of his or her current position

- An altered schedule of work hours

## DEFINITIONS:

- Transitional duty is a therapeutic tool used to accelerate injured employees’ return to work by addressing the physical, emotional, attitudinal and environmental factors that otherwise inhibits a prompt return to work. These assignments are meant to be temporary, and the District will evaluate the appropriateness of the transitional duty at least once every thirty (30) days

- Alternate duty is a part of the District’s Return to Work Policy that is designed as a placement service for individuals who have reached maximum medical improvement and are still unable to perform the essential functions of their pre-injury job

## APPLICABILITY

- Length of Duty – if work is available that meets the limitations or restrictions set forth by the employee’s attending practitioner, that employee may be assigned transitional or modified work. Transitional or light duty is a temporary program, and an employee’s eligibility in these reduced assignments will be based strictly on medical documentation and recovery progress and re-evaluated at least once every thirty (30) days.

- Daily Application – an employee’s limitations and restrictions are effective twenty-four (24) hours a day. Any employee who fails to follow his or her restrictions may cause a delay in healing or may further aggravate the condition. Employees who disregard their established restrictions, whether they are at work or not, may be subject to disciplinary action up to and including termination.

- Qualification – transitional or modified duty will be available to all employees on a fair and equitable basis with temporary assignments based on skill and abilities. Eligibility will be based upon completion of the Return to Work Evaluation Form by the employee’s attending medical professional. An employee on modified duty will be considered part of the regular shift staffing, with recognition of the employee’s limitations within the department.

## RESPONSIBILITIES

The following responsibilities apply to various levels within the School District:

- Administration will ensure the policy’s enforcement among all levels at the District and will actively promote and support this policy and the Return to Work Program as a whole.

- Directors and supervisors will support the employee’s return to work by identifying appropriate modified assignments and ensuring the employee does not exceed the physician’s set restrictions. Supervisors will also stay in regular contact with absent employees and communicate the District’s attendance expectations clearly. They are also responsible for reporting any problems with employees and this policy to the Return to Work manager or program supervisor.

- Injured workers will notify their supervisors in a timely manner when their condition requires an absence. They will closely follow their physician’s medical treatment plan and actively participate in the District’s Return to

Work Program, which includes following all the guidelines of this policy. Injured employees will also help supervisors identify potential options for transitional duties that they discover. While supervisors are responsible for maintaining constant communication with the injured employee, the worker also has the obligation to maintain contact with their supervisor about their condition and status. The injured worker will complete all the required paperwork in a timely manner.

- Return to Work Program Manager will take into consideration the physical and psychosocial aspects of the disability and will also understand the nuances of the District’s Return to Work Program, policies and all associated forms. He or she will provide program leadership by facilitating communication between union officials, employees, managers and medical providers. This manager will have the responsibility of helping to create and maintain the District’s Job Bank and will assist supervisors with on- site problem solving.

## WORK SCHEDULE

The District will do everything in its power to tailor the restricted work schedule to the injured employee’s normal, pre-condition work schedule. However, depending on the job limitations, it may be necessary for the employee to take on a specifically designed, temporary schedule to accommodate these restrictions.

## PAYMENT OF WAGES

If qualified authorities determine an employee’s injury is work related, the District will pay benefits and wages in accordance with the state workers’ compensation statute and with district policies.

Employees performing modified duty on a restricted work week will receive payment for hours worked from the School District, while hours not worked will be reimbursed according to workers’ compensation guidelines.

Employees performing transitional duty on a restricted work week following a period of Short Term Disability (STD) may receive a combination of regular pay and partial disability benefits. The employee and the District Human Resources Department will work out this combination on a case-by-case basis.

If the employees take vacation or there is a holiday during restricted duty, they are entitled to their regular vacation selection or holiday pay as it would apply to normal, non-restricted duty.

## COMMUNICATION EXPECTATIONS

If an employee is unable to work in any capacity and the School District approves of the absences, the employee must stay in constant communication with the Return to Work Program Manager and the direct supervisor. Each must receive an update of the employee’s medical status on at least a weekly basis. Failure to do so may result in a reduction in available benefits and discipline up to and including termination.

## MEDICAL APPOINTMENTS

The employee’s occupational health physician must complete the District’s Return to Work Evaluation Form for each visit to evaluate the impairment. It is the employee’s responsibility to inform the District of his or her medical status after each doctor visit.

## EMPLOYEE PROCEDURES

- In the event an injury or illness is work related, report it to your supervisor immediately, or no later than the end of the shift on which the injury occurs.

- Complete and sign a Report of Injury Form.

- Let your supervisor know that you are seeking medical treatment and obtain a Return to Work Evaluation Form. The Return to Work Evaluation form must be completed for each practitioner visit regardless of your choice of physician and regardless whether the condition is work related or not.

- Participate in the Return to Work Program on temporary transitional work while your occupational health physician and supervisor continuously review your condition.

## REFUSAL TO PARTICIPATE-

If you are unable to return to your regular job but are capable of performing transitional duty, you must return to transitional duty. Employees who choose not to participate in the District’s Return to Work Program or follow all regulations in the Return to work Policy, may become ineligible for temporary disability workers’ compensation benefits and, in some cases, refusal to participate may be a basis for termination. Unpaid Family Medical Leave will apply upon refusal and disability benefits will cease.

