---
created: 1997-04-14
reviewed: 1997-04-14
title: Outside employment
---

# 0403.51 

West Ada School District does not object to outside employment and the intent is not to infringe on personal
freedom or to discourage its employees from business ventures or entrepreneurial endeavors. However, employees
are expected to maintain their primary obligation to the school district.

All district employees should consult and follow the Code of Ethics of the Idaho Teaching Profession, Principle I -
Commitment to the Student, Item 6 and Item 8 which state:

Item 6. Idaho educators shall refrain from using professional relationships with students for personal advantage.

Item 8. Idaho educators shall not tutor students assigned to one’s classes for remuneration, except when specifically
approved by the board of trustees.

In reference to administrators, counselors, school psychologists and such other employees assigned to the building,
the West Ada School District board of trustees interprets “assigned to one’s classes” to include all students enrolled
in the employee’s assigned school(s).

DISTRICT EMPLOYEES CANNOT:


- Allow outside employment or a business venture to interfere with their performance, duties or responsibilities,
infringe upon the school day or contracted year, or interfere with the effectiveness of district work.


- Utilize district facilities, equipment, or materials for personal monetary gain in any outside business,
employment or venture.


- Direct subordinates or students to utilize specific products or services from which they will derive personal
monetary gain.


- Engage in outside employment or activity which may involve the use of information and/or materials secured
as the result of employment in the school district.

EXCEPTIONS TO THIS POLICY ARE AS FOLLOWS:


- Board approved programs such as summer athletic camps and summer academic camps.


- Private lessons, such as music lessons, tutoring or other enrichment activities that are clearly beyond the scope
of the regular curriculum or school day.

If there is any doubt about whether any activity, business, employment or venture is in conflict with the official
duties and responsibilities of the employee, it is the responsibility of that employee to consult and obtain approval
from their supervisor.

