---
created: 2019-10-08
reviewed: 2019-10-08
legal: Code of Idaho,18-1514, 18-2201, 18-2202, 33-132, The Family Education Rights and,Privacy Act of 1974, Individuals with Disabilities Act
title: Staff Technology and Internet Acceptable Use
code: 0403.57
---


The District provides staff with access to electronic devices, networks, information systems and the Internet to support education, research and for the purposes of conducting school business. Staff are expected to use all technology resources for purposes appropriate to the education environment at all times and will refrain from any use that is not consistent with the policies, purposes, or objectives of the West Ada School District. Board members will comply with the same standards as District staff in regard to the use of technology, internet, email, social media and confidential information.

## Electronic Devices

The terms of acceptable use apply to all electronic devices, including personal devices. All electronic devices and communication sent on a District network shall be used in a manner consistent with the policies of the District. In the course of monitoring District networks for acceptable use, District personnel may limit or restrict electronic devices (including personal devices) from access to District resources, networks, and the Internet.

## Privacy and Confidentiality

Staff have no expectation of privacy in any materials that are stored, transmitted, or received via the District’s electronic network or via District electronic devices. The District reserves the right to access, monitor, inspect, copy, review, and store, at any time and without prior notice, any and all usage of District technology including Internet access. This includes any and all information transmitted or received in connection with such usage, including documents, email and instant messages. Users should expect that even deleted messages and documents may be recovered and reviewed by designated District personnel for period of time after deletion.

## Filtering and Logging

All District devices and networks, including the Virtual Private Network (VPN), are filtered and logged for content, sites visited, and duration of use as required by Idaho Code. This includes all guests, students, classified, certified, and administration staff. These logs are accessible and can be reviewed by designated technology staff to ensure that District technology is used for appropriate educational purposes.

## Sharing of Education Records

Electronic mail and documents that contain confidential student information as defined in Policy 504.6 – Education Records are intended for designated recipient or recipients with a legitimate educational interest and shall not be forwarded or shared with any person or persons who do not have legitimate educational interest.

## Unacceptable Uses of District Technology

The following are considered examples of unacceptable uses and constitute a violation of this policy. Additional unacceptable uses can occur other than those specifically listed or enumerated herein:



- Uses that violate the law or encourage others to violate the law, including but not limited to transmitting offensive or harassing messages; offering for sale, use, or purchase any substance the possession or use of which is prohibited by the District’s policy, local, State, or federal law; viewing, transmitting, or downloading pornographic materials or materials that encourage others to violate local, State or federal law; Sending, receiving, viewing, or downloading obscene materials, materials harmful to minors, or materials that depict the sexual exploitation of minors; information pertaining to manufacture of weapons; intruding into the networks or computers of others; and downloading or transmitting confidential, or trade secret information;



- Intentionally uploading a worm, virus, other harmful form of programming or vandalism; participating in “hacking” activities or any form of unauthorized access to other computers, networks, or other information.


a. Users will immediately notify the technology department if they have identified a possible security problem. Users will not intentionally look for security problems, because this may be construed as an illegal attempt to gain access.



- Uses amounting to harassment, sexual harassment, bullying, or cyber-bullying defined as using an electronic device, computer system, or computer network to convey a message in any format, including audio or video, text, graphics, photographic, or any combination thereof, that is intended to harm another individual, their property, person, or reputation,


including but not limited to engaging in defamation (harming another’s reputation by lies).



- Uses that jeopardize the security of another user’s access and of the computer network or other networks on the Internet; Sharing one’s password with others or allowing them to use one’s account; posting or sending messages anonymously or using a name other than ones’ own; employing another’s password or some other user identifier that misleads message recipients into believing that someone other than you is communicating; reading another person’s communication that have not been shared with you; sharing another person’s pictures, private information, or messages without their permission.



- Uses that waste District resources including downloading or copying very large files, unnecessary printing and consuming excess file space on shared drives. Through routine maintenance, individual files (on network directory drives or online accounts) may be reviewed and deleted by designated technology staff.



- Downloading, installing, or copying software, applications, plugins or other executable files without authorization of Superintendent or the Superintendent’s designee(s). a. Only District approved software will be installed by designated personnel on networks or District electronic devices. Appropriate licenses must be held for all software. b. Peripheral devices (including, but not limited to, printers, scanners, and storage/data devices) must be approved and installed by designated personnel.



- Using District technology including the electronic mail system for.

    - Personal financial gain

    - Personal advertising or promotion

    - For-Profit business activities

    - Unapproved fundraising

    - Inappropriate public relations activities such as solicitation for religious purposes

    - Inappropriate political purposes

    - Non-job-related purposes



- Attempting to bypass internal or external security system or controls.



- Using the network while access privileges are revoked.

## Staff use of Social Media

Staff will be held accountable for the content they post on social media websites. All staff members are responsible for complying with District policy and may not disrupt the learning atmosphere, education programs, school activities, or the rights of others. All requirements of this policy apply to use of social media through the District network or equipment.

## Copyright

All users should abide by current copyright law. If text or multimedia files from the Internet or other electronic sources are used, they must be used according to the Fair Use Guidelines established by federal copyright law and policies of West Ada School District and cited accordingly.

## E-mail Retention

All email will be removed and deleted from a user’s account after one hundred and ninety (190) days, and staff will have the ability to mark emails for retention for up to 390 days. The District email system does not archive email for later retrieval.

## Wireless Guest Network

The District wireless network is an extension of the District network and may be accessed with a personal device by using the published username and password protocols established by the Technology Department.

By using the District wireless network, the user agrees to the following:



- The wireless network will only have access to the Internet and not allow connection to any District or school server(s), printer, or other peripheral device.

- All Internet usage will be filtered and logged according to District filtering procedures.

- No technical support will be provided to make a device work on the guest network.




- Personal devices connected to the wireless network may be monitored and reviewed at any time by designated technology staff.

- Personal web accounts visited while connected to the wireless network maybe monitored and reviewed at any time by designated technology staff.

- Use of this network is a privilege and not a right, District reserves the right to limit or restrict connectivity to this network at any time and for any reason without notification.

## CONSEQUENCES OF INAPPROPRAITE USE OF TECHNOLOGY RESOURCES

Any action by a user that is determined by an administration or designee to constitute an inappropriate use of the network or electronic information/communication systems as per District policy or to improperly restrict or inhibit other users from using these resources shall be subject to discipline, up to and including termination and/or legal action.

If the actions of the individual are so in violation of other District policies, said individual shall be subject to additional possible disciplinary action based upon these policies.

## District Limitation of Liability

The District makes no warranties of any kind, express or implied, in connection with its provision of access to and use of its computer networks and the Internet provided under this policy. The District is not responsible for any information that may be lost, damaged, or unavailable when using the network, or for any information that is retrieved or transmitted via the Internet. The District will not be responsible for any unauthorized charges or fees resulting from access to the Internet, and any user is fully responsible to the District and shall indemnify and hold the District, its trustees, administrators, teachers, and staff harmless form any and all loss, costs, claims, or damages resulting from such user’s access to its computer network and Internet, including but not limited to any fees or charges incurred though purchases of goods or services by the user. The user or, if the user is a minor, the user’s parent(s)/legal guardian(s) agrees to cooperate with the District in the event the school initiates an investigation of a user’s use of his or her access to its computer network and the Internet.


