---
created: 2016-01-26
reviewed: 2016-01-26
title: Use by Employees of School District Owned Vehicles
code: "0403.10"
---

Authorized employees of the West Ada School District (WASD) may use district-owned vehicles for the purpose of performing job related duties in an efficient and economical manner. These vehicles will generally be used for official business and work-related activities.

Unauthorized individuals are prohibited from using WASD vehicles at any time.

Only those persons whose names, copy of driver license, and signed vehicle use agreement are on file are authorized to use WASD vehicles.

WASD owned vehicles will not be offered for lease or loaned to any organization for any purpose.

All WASD vehicles will be identified with a WASD logo prominently displayed on the exterior of the vehicle.

A copy of this policy will be maintained in all WASD vehicles.

## Employee Obligations

It is the responsibility of each employee to visually inspect the vehicle prior to its use to ensure that the vehicle is in a safe operating condition.

Each driver is responsible for immediately reporting theft or damage of the WASD vehicle to local police immediately. Additionally, all information relative to theft or damage must be provided to the Assistant Superintendent of Operations within 24 hours.

In the event of an accident involving a WASD owned vehicle, each driver is responsible for responding as follows:

- Negligence or liability should not be admitted.

- No settlement, regardless of how minor, should be offered.

- The name, address, and phone number of any injured person and witnesses should be obtained, if possible.

- Vehicle identification, insurance, district name, and policy numbers should be exchanged with the other driver.

- Take a photograph of the scene of accident, if possible.

- Call the police if injury to others is involved. It may be appropriate to call police even if there are no injuries.

- Complete the accident report form in the district vehicle.

- Turn all information relative to the accident over to the driver’s direct supervisor and the Assistant Superintendent of Operations within 24 hours.

## Prohibition of Commuter Use

No employee shall routinely utilize a WASD owned vehicle for commuter use. In those instances where it is reasonable for an employee to take a WASD owned vehicle home overnight for the convenience of WASD, approval must be obtained by the direct supervisor.

## Loss of Vehicle Privileges

Employees may have vehicle privileges suspended or revoked, and/or may be subject to disciplinary action, and/or may be liable to the WASD for costs resulting from any misuse of a WASD owned vehicle. Examples of such misuse include, but are not limited to: use of a WASD owned vehicle for other than official WASD business; driving a WASD vehicle without a valid Idaho driver’s license; unsafe driving practices or abuse of the vehicle; smoking in a WASD owned vehicle; failure to use proper fuel; improper fuel card usage; transporting unauthorized passengers on a regular basis such as non-WASD employees, family members, or friends; failure to report an accident or wrongfully leaving the scene of an accident.

## Definitions

- WASD owned vehicles: Those vehicles owned by or operated on behalf of the WASD and include, but are not limited to passenger vehicles, sport utility vehicles, pickup trucks, vans and other trucks. School buses are not included in the definition of WASD owned vehicles for purposes of this policy.

- Commuter use: An employer provided vehicle to travel from home to work and/or from work to home. Routinely driving a WASD owned vehicle which is parked at a WASD owned facility near an employee’s home, to the employee’s assigned work location is also defined as Commuter use for the purpose of taxation.

- Official business and work-related activities: These activities are meant to be narrowly construed. However, there may be times that official business and work-related activities may coincide with a personal purpose; for example, stopping for meals or minor personal errands in-route is permissible.

