---
created: 2023-11-13
reviewed: 2023-11-13
legal: 33-513 Professional Personnel
title: 0403.90 Assignment of Employment Related Duties to Superintendent
code: "0403.90"
kind: Policy
---

The Board of Trustees recognizes that the Superintendent is the executive officer of the Board of Trustees with such powers and duties that the Board may prescribe. The Superintendent shall act as the authorized representative of the District, having the authority and delegation to place an employee on administrative leave whenever such is required, unless some other person shall be named by the Board of Trustees to act as its authorized representatives.

The Board of Trustees recognizes that Idaho Code grants the power to the Board of Trustees to suspend, grant leave of absence, place on probation, or discharge certificated professional personnel for material violation of any lawful rules or regulations of the Board of Trustees or of the state Board of Education or for any conduct which could constitute grounds for the revocation of a teaching certificate. The Board recognizes that there are situations which arise concerning certificated employees which may require immediate suspension or leave of absence. Thus, the Board has delegated to the Superintendent or his/her designee the authority to place any employee on a period of involuntary leave of absence if the Superintendent or designee believes that such action is in the best interest of the District. Upon the Superintendent or designee's action to place a certificated employee on a period of involuntary leave of absence, the Board shall ratify or nullify the action of the Superintendent or designee at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the board or at a special meeting of the Board should the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Board not be within a period of twenty-one (21) days from the date of the action. The maximum duration of such involuntary leave and the determination of whether such leave shall be with or without pay shall follow the provisions as established in Idaho Code.

As to all classified employees, the Superintendent shall be the person responsible for hiring, firing, disciplining, suspending, and any other action related to the employment of said classified employee, subject to the right of grievance set forth in Idaho Code 33-517. The Board reserves the right to review and change the decision of the Superintendent if the board disagrees with the resolution of any employment issue.
