---
created: 2003-09-22
updated: 2010-10-12
reviewed: 2010-10-12
title: 0403.23 Workers Compensation
code: "0403.23"
---

West Ada School District is self-insured for workers compensation. All cases covered by workers compensation will be treated in accordance with policy established by the State of Idaho.

## REPORTING CLAIMS

Claims are filed through the office of the administrator of operations. Accident report forms should be filed on the intranet.

Any accident to a school employee covered under the Self Insured Fund should be reported immediately, whether or not medical attention appears necessary at the time of the accident.

The department supervisor, or building principal, or school nurse is responsible for submitting a report to the superintendent or designee, providing details of the accident and disposition of the case.

## LEAVE OPTION

In the event of a disability incurred on the job covered by worker's compensation, the employee shall be given the choice of either: 1) leave of absence without pay while receiving workers compensation; or 2) utilizing a portion of accrued sick leave to supplement workers compensation to maintain his or her regular salary.

If option one (1) is chosen, the following will take place:

- Employee will keep his/her workers compensation check.

- The District will continue to pay single coverage insurance for full-time employees. For any employee working less than full time, the District will continue to pay single coverage insurance that the employee has previously been receiving (without payroll deductions).

- Employee will be responsible to make all necessary arrangements with Personnel to continue any other payroll deductions. Failure to do so will result in automatic cancellation.

If option two (2) is chosen, the following will take place:

- Employee will keep his/her workers compensation check.

- Subsequent payroll checks will be adjusted as described in this policy.

- Once all sick leave has been used, employee will automatically go on Leave without Pay. At this time, employee must follow guidelines as described above in Option I.

## ACCOUNTING PROCEDURE

Sick leave pay is taxable, whereas workers compensation pay is not. These procedures will serve to adjust for the non-taxable portion of the employee’s pay and reimburse the employee’s sick days. In the case of injuries that result in workers compensation claims, there is often a considerable time lag between date of injury and settlement due to processing, investigation, doctor’s examinations, etc. Because of this delay, and not knowing whether the claim is compensable, the district normally continues to pay the employee’s salary and benefits, from the employee’s available sick leave account until it has been exhausted.

Once sick leave has been exhausted, the employee’s only salary compensation will come from the Self Insured Fund. The district will continue to pay single health, dental and life coverage benefits for the balance of the employment year. The employee will need to make arrangements for coverage for family benefits and other deductions.

If and when the employee receives a worker's compensation check, the payroll department will receive a copy of that check from the Self Insured Fund. Rather than have the employee return the workers compensation check to the district, the employee’s subsequent district payroll check(s) will be adjusted based on the copy of the worker's compensation check the district receives. This money shall be used by the district to credit (or buy back) the employee’s sick leave days, equivalent to the nearest half day that this money would buy, computed at the employee’s daily rate of pay.

It is illegal under the law governing worker's compensation for the combined worker's compensation payment and district payment to the employee for the work time loss to exceed the amount the employee would have been paid had she/he not been injured. Should the total compensation received exceed the employee’s normal earnings, it will be necessary to adjust the payroll account accordingly or to implement the necessary collection procedures.
