---
created: 2009-03-17
reviewed: 2009-03-17
title: Harassment
code: 0403.71
---

#  

It is the policy of this school district to maintain an environment that is free from harassment. All employees have the right to work in an atmosphere that promotes equal opportunities free from all forms of discrimination and conduct that could be harassing, coercive, or disruptive.

District employees are:


- Prohibited from engaging in any conduct which could reasonably be construed as constituting harassment on the basis of sex, race, color, national origin, age, religious beliefs, ethnic background or disability;


- Prohibited from displaying graffiti and/or slogans or visual displays such as cartoons or posters depicting slurs or derogatory sentiments related to the victim’s sex, race, color, national origin, age, religious beliefs, ethnic background or disability;


- Prohibited from sexually harassing other employees, students or visitors of the district;


- Required to report to his/her supervisor, or the Human Resources Director any harassment of which the employee becomes aware; and,


- Required to take immediate action to discipline and/or report students who engage in conduct which may be reasonably considered constituting harassment of another student.

This policy applies to all conduct on the district’s premises and to conduct off the district’s premises that has an effect upon an employee’s work environment or a student’s educational environment.

As deemed appropriate, the district will provide training to employees regarding harassment and will take reasonable steps to take remedial action to stop harassment and prevent its recurrence.

## DEFINITION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT

Sexual harassment is a form of misconduct that includes unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, unwelcome physical contact or other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature when:


- The employee’s submission to such conduct is made either as an implicit or explicit term or condition of employment (including but not limited to wages, evaluation, advancement, retention, assigned duties or other employment-related matters);


- Submission to or rejection of such conduct is used as a basis for decisions affecting employment or educational decisions affecting the individuals;


- Such conduct by supervisors, other employees or volunteers has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering with an individual’s work performance or education, or creating an intimidating, hostile or offensive work or educational environment.


- Examples of sexual harassment include, but are not limited to, the following;


    - Verbal conduct includes sexual innuendoes, suggestive comments, jokes of a sexual nature, sexual     propositions and threats, negative comments regarding an individuals’ gender;


    - Nonverbal conduct includes sexually suggestive objects or pictures, graphic commentaries, suggestive or     insulting noises, obscene gestures, whistling, leering, and stalking;


    - Physical conduct includes unwanted physical contact such as touching, pinching, brushing the body,     coerced sexual intercourse or assault;


- No employee may use the authority of his or her position to subject any other employee to sexual harassment, as described above, or to coerce, encourage or force another into a romantic relationship.

## REPORTING A COMPLAINT

Individuals who believe they are being harassed should firmly and promptly notify the offender that his or her behavior is unwelcome. When a direct communication with the alleged harasser is not feasible or effective, the following steps should be followed when reporting a harassment complaint:


- The individual may choose to report the complaint to his or her supervisor or building principal.


- If the supervisor successfully resolves the complaint in an informal manner, a confidential report will be made to the Human Resources Director about the complaint and resolution so that the district may determine if any pattern of harassment by any particular individual exists.


- If the supervisor is unable to resolve the complaint, the complaint will be referred to the Human Resources Director.


- If the individual chooses not to report the complaint to his or her supervisor, the individual may report the incident directly to the Human Resources Director. If the complaint in any manner involves the Human Resources Director the individual should report the complaint to the Assistant Superintendent.

An employee, at any time, may file a sexual discrimination or harassment claim with the Idaho Human Rights Commission and/or the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC).

## PROTECTION AGAINST RETALIATION

The district will not retaliate in any way against an individual who makes a report of harassment, in good faith, nor will it permit any district employee to do so. Any person found to have retaliated against another individual for reporting an incident of harassment, in good faith, may be subject to the same disciplinary action provided for harassment offenders. Individuals who are not complainants but who assist individuals who believe they have been subjected to harassment or who assist or participate in a harassment investigation are also protected from retaliation.

## INVESTIGATION OF HARASSMENT COMPLAINT


- Any allegation of harassment, including sexual harassment, will be promptly investigated in a confidential manner to protect the privacy of all individuals involved.


- Confidentiality will be maintained throughout the investigatory process to the extent practical and appropriate under the circumstances.


- Complaints not resolved at the immediate supervisory/administrative level will be investigated by the District’s Human Resources Director.


- Upon completion of the investigation of a harassment complaint, the investigator will communicate his/her finding to the superintendent. If the complaint in any manner involves the superintendent, the investigator’s finding will be submitted directly to the Assistant Superintendent.


- The district will keep and maintain a written record including, but not limited to, witness statements, investigative reports, and correspondence from the date any allegation of harassment is reported to district personnel. The information in the written record will also include the action taken by the district in response to each allegation. The record will be kept in the district’ administrative office and will not, at any time, be purged by district personnel.


- If the findings of the investigation determine that harassment has occurred and that suspension, probation or dismissal is warranted, the board will be informed of the findings in executive session, and the record will be maintained in the personnel file.

## DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS

When it is brought to their attention, administrators and supervisors must take affirmative steps to stop harassment


by subordinates or non-employees, including, warning, discipline and recommending possible probation or dismissal.

If the investigation finds that an employee has harassed another employee or a student, disciplinary actions may include probation, suspension and/or dismissal from employment. In addition, documentation regarding the disciplinary action will be placed in the employee’s personnel file.


