---
created: 2009-08-11
updated: 2010-08-17
reviewed: 2010-08-17
title: Employee Alcohol and Other Drugs
code: 0403.70
---

Employees are prohibited from using, possessing, distributing, dispensing, or manufacturing illegal drugs, paraphernalia, or alcohol on any school premises or at any school activity. Employees are further prohibited from being under the influence of illegal drugs or alcohol on any school premises or at any school activity. The use of legal or prescribed drugs is permitted on the job only if it does not impair an employee’s ability to perform the essential functions of the job effectively and in a safe manner that does not endanger other individuals in the workplace.

## DEFINITIONS:

- Use: The use, possession or distribution of illegal drugs or the abusive use of other drugs, or the use of alcohol on any school premises, or district property during contract hours or at any school activity (see definition, 9).

- Possession: To have alcohol or other illegal drugs other than as prescribed to the employee by a medical doctor on the employee’s person or within an area of the employee’s control including but not limited to car, locker, and clothing at the work place.

- Distribution: To share and/or sell alcohol or other dangerous drugs to other persons at the work place. This includes, but is not limited to, illegal drugs and alcohol but also the sharing of prescription medications with an individual(s) to whom the medication was not prescribed by a medical doctor.”

- Illegal Drugs: Any controlled substances defined by Idaho Code Section 37-2701 or any other substance, including prescription drugs, which is used to alter or change the mood cognition, comprehension or functioning capacity of an individual, anabolic steroids, or any other performance enhancement drug. The term “illegal drugs” does not include over the counter drugs or drugs prescribed by a doctor or dentist specifically for the person in possession of those drugs when used as prescribed.

- Under the influence: This definition covers not only all well-known and easily recognized conditions and degrees of intoxication but any abnormal mental or physical condition which is the result of indulging to any degree in unlawful alcohol, illegal drugs, or the abuse of prescribed drugs, and which tends to deprive one of that clarity of intellect and control of himself/herself which is/she would otherwise possess. This definition is not intended to represent the legal definition of a certain percentage of blood content or BAC, but rather is intended and interpreted in the layman’s term.

- Unlawful Alcohol: Any alcoholic beverage as defined by Idaho Code 23-105 and 23-1001.

- Unlawful Alcohol Use: The use, possession or distribution of alcohol on any school premises or at any school activity.

- Violations: The commission of an act of illegal drug use, abuse of a legally prescribed drug or unlawful alcohol use by a district employee. Positive evidence that the employee is involved in use, possession, or distribution of alcohol or other drugs. Having alcohol on one’s breath is not appropriate in the work place or at school-sponsored activities and will support evidence of use or being under the influence.

- District Property/dual-enrolled programs: Includes all buildings, facilities, and property owned or leased by, West Ada School District, including school buses, other school vehicles, or the location of any school- sponsored activity or function whether an employee is supervising or attending on their personal time. In addition, district property is defined as any dual-enrollment setting that includes, but is not limited to, Meridian Professional Technical Center, Meridian Night School, Meridian District high school and middle school summer school, Treasure Valley Math and Science, and the Dehryl Dennis Center.

## DISCIPLINARY ACTION

Any employee who violates the terms of the district’s drug and alcohol policy may be subject to disciplinary action including, but not limited to, discharge, suspension, and/or referral for drug and alcohol abuse evaluation and rehabilitation at the discretion of the board.

Notwithstanding the above paragraph, a district bus driver or anyone charged with driving a district-owned vehicle will be suspended from all duties pending investigation when reasonable suspicion exists that the driver may be under the influence of illegal drugs or alcohol. Moreover, it is district policy to conduct random drug/alcohol screening of all CDL qualified personnel who drive district vehicles as a condition of employment. A positive drug test will be considered as proof of being under the influence. Drivers who use or who are under the influence of alcohol or illegal drugs as defined by this policy will be terminated and the board or designee will recommend license revocation to the Idaho Department of Transportation.

## FIRST OFFENSE

If an employee violates this policy, with the exception of those listed above, the employee will be suspended from work for three (3) days without pay. Additionally, if it is determined that the violation was detrimental to the health and safety of school personnel or students, or resulted in the employee being unable to perform job duties, the employee may be terminated.

The District will support the EAP in such a manner that assessment, counseling, and referral services are available for any/all employees subject to a mandatory referral for a first violation of this policy. However, if the employee does not qualify for the EAP because of waived benefits, they must, before returning to work, agree to have a drug and alcohol assessment provided at a state approved alcohol/drug agency in the community and conducted by a certified alcoholism/drug abuse counselor, at the employee’s expense. The employee must agree to follow the recommendations of the counselor, and is responsible for providing the District notice of their activities in meeting these responsibilities as well as the recommendations; this notice will be confidential under HIPAA. If it is determined that the employee is not following the treatment recommendations, the employee will be terminated.

In the event that the health, welfare, and safety of students, employees, volunteers or visitors has been adversely affected by the employee’s offense, the employee will be immediately terminated.

## SECOND OFFENSE

When an employee violates the policy for a second time, the employee will be terminated.

