---
created: 2001-03-12
updated: 2015-07-07
reviewed: 2015-07-07
legal: Code of Idaho,Code of Ethics for Idaho,Professional Educators; IDAPA,08.02.02.076,
title: Staff Conduct
---

# 0403.50 

All staff members have a responsibility to make themselves familiar with, and abide by, the laws of the state as they
affect their work, the policies of the board and the regulations designed to implement them.

STANDARD OF CONDUCT
By accepting employment with West Ada School District, employees have a responsibility to the District, the
students, the patrons, and to fellow employees to adhere to certain rules of behavior and conduct. The purpose of
these rules is to be certain that employees understand what conduct is necessary and expected. When each person
is aware that he/she can fully depend upon fellow workers to follow the rules of conduct, then our organization will
be a better place for everyone to work.

Each person is expected to act in a mature and responsible way at all times. Actions that include, but are not limited
to: willful violation of any federal law, state law, or District policy, and/or any act of insubordination*, dishonesty, or
other negligent conduct that may endanger the health or safety of another, may be cause for immediate dismissal.

Essential to the success of ongoing school operations and the instructional program are the following specific
responsibilities, which shall be required of all personnel:


- Faithfulness and promptness in attendance at work.


- Support and enforcement of policies of the board and regulations of the school administration.


- Diligence in submitting required reports promptly at the time specified.


- The District requires that all adults engage in safe, supportive and respectful interactions with children at all
times.


- All staff are responsible for the safety and welfare of students including the need to ensure that students are
supervised.


- Adults must not give a child a ride in a vehicle unless they have the written permission of the child’s
parent(s)/guardian(s) or in case of an emergency.


- Adults cannot leave campus with a student or students without permission from the administrative team and
full knowledge of the parent(s)/guardian(s).


- Appropriate physical behavior includes contact that maintains physical boundaries at all times and only consists
of public and nonsexual touches.


- Electronic communication between adults and children should be transparent and about school, club or
program activities. Private messaging via social media and/or online gaming is prohibited. Emails and/or text
messages related to instruction are
subject to periodic monitoring.


- Provide a healthy learning environment and appropriate role models for students by refraining from the use of
e-cigarettes, tobacco products in school buildings or on school grounds, on school buses, or in the presence of
students at any school activity
sponsored by the district or in any facility of West Ada School District.


- Keep in confidence information that has been obtained in the course of professional service.


- Inform their supervisor in the event they receive knowledge that they are under investigation, have been
charged with, arrested, or convicted of any felony.

*Insubordination results when an employee has received and understood a direct order, but refuses to obey. Either
the employee has made an explicit statement of refusal or simply did not complete the task.

