---
created: 1996-05-13
reviewed: 1996-05-13
legal: Code of Idaho,33-1254; Code of Ethics of th,Idaho Teaching Profession,33-1254; Code of Ethics of the,Idaho Teaching Profession,
title: Protection of Students
code: 0403.55
---

#  

The board of trustees of West Ada School District believes in the worth and dignity of all students. District personnel
have an obligation and duty to protect and safeguard every student. All district employees are directed by the board
to:


- Conduct business in such a way that he/she does not expose or subject students to unnecessary
embarrassment or disparagement.


- Keep in confidence information that has been obtained in the course of professional service, unless disclosure
serves professional purposes or is required by law.


- Refrain from excluding any student on the grounds of race, color, creed or national origin from participating in
or denying him/her benefits under any program nor grant any discriminatory consideration or advantage.


- Protect students from conditions detrimental to learning, and safeguard the physiological and/or psychological
well-being of all students.

PROCEDURES:


- School district employees should respond in a positive and protective manner when students confide in them
and/or provide information that is considered important for the employee to know.


- Employees should relay information given to them by students to the appropriate resource, such as an
administrator, counselor and/or supervisor, parent, school resource officer, the health and welfare agency, etc.
Such information will be released to other
individuals only on a "need-to-know" basis.


- Employees should not discuss the situation or the information disclosed with other students or in the presence
of students. Every effort should be made to ensure that students are always protected from embarrassment,
harassment and/or ridicule.


- Reports of inappropriate disclosure of confidential information will be investigated by a review panel convened
by the appropriate supervisor.

