---
created: 1994-08-22
updated: 2019-01-15
reviewed: 2019-01-15
legal: Idaho Code
title: Outside/Community Speakers
code: "1001.20"
---

It is the policy of West Ada School District that the use of outside/community speakers will be encouraged when the following conditions have been met:

Selection of speakers and topics must be appropriate to the age and grade level of the students.

Teachers should insure that guest speakers and topics will relate directly to the curriculum. Approved request forms should be used and building procedures governing guests should be followed for all speakers. Material in written or visual form should be previewed by the teacher before distribution. If the teacher is uncertain if the topic of the speaker and/or their materials is appropriate, they should seek council and approval from the building administration.

Prior notification and approval of the building principal or assistant principal is required before scheduling an outside presentation and any controversial materials. Students will be informed about up coming guest speakers as soon as the teacher receives approval. Signed participation/permission slips will be required from all students for guest speakers dealing with “Family Life and Sex Education.” Any topic deemed sensitive* or controversial* by the building administration will also require parental permission forms to be signed in advance and returned to the classroom teacher.

*A sensitive or controversial topic is defined as one that is debatable, contestable, in dispute or questionable as determined by building administration.

Requests must be submitted to the principal or assistant principal on the approved Guest Speaker Form no less than seven working days prior to the scheduled visit. Requests for clearly non-controversial topics may be approved on shorter notice at the discretion of the principal or designee.

The principal or assistant principal must respond in writing to a teacher’s request within three working days after receiving a request for a speaker.

When dealing with controversial issues or candidates for public office, both sides will be presented.

Alternative educational experiences that relate to the course of study will be provided for those students opting not to hear the guest speaker(s).

When using an outside speaker, primary responsibility for the instruction and supervision of students is retained by the teacher.

Any teacher-directed follow-up activities/lessons will be consistent with the approved curriculum, Master Contract and District Policy.

Following the speaker presentation, if a parent finds the presented material offensive, a parent/teacher conference will be held with the supervising administrator before any further actions are taken.

In the event an outside/community speaker is denied access to the classroom, the teacher will meet with the building principal or assistant principal within three working days of the denial to discuss the reason(s) for the denial. If the teacher is not satisfied with the reasons presented for the denial, he/she may appeal the decision to the appropriate regional director. If consensus is not reached at this level, the teacher may forward his/her appeal to the superintendent. Finally, the superintendent’s decision can be appealed to the board of trustees.

