---
created: 2006-09-12
updated: 2023-01-23
reviewed: 2023-01-23
legal: Code of Idaho,33-508, 74-205
title: 1001.10 School Board Minutes
code: "1001.10"
---

The Clerk of the Board shall record the minutes of all meetings. When the Clerk is absent from the meeting, the board shall appoint an individual to act as a temporary clerk, to keep the record of the proceedings of the board and certify the same to the Clerk, to be entered by the Clerk.

All minutes shall be available to the public within a reasonable time after the meeting.

Minutes are required, by law, to include the following:

- Date, place and time of meeting.

- Names of all members of the board present.

- All motions,resolutions, orders or ordinances proposed and their disposition.

- The results of all votes, and upon the request of a member, the vote of each member by name.

- All matters required by law.

At the discretion of the Clerk and at the option of the Board, additional information may be included in the Board's Minutes.

Minutes pertaining to Executive Session shall include a reference to the specific statutory subsection of the Idaho Code authorizing the executive session and shall also provide sufficient detail to identify the purpose and topic of the executive session but shall not contain information sufficient to compromise the purpose of going into Executive Session. If the Executive Session included a vote on one of statutorily designated actions allowing a vote during Executive Session, the vote shall be recorded in the minutes in a manner not to compromise the purpose for the Executive Session.

