---
created: 2006-09-12
updated: 2018-07-31
reviewed: 2018-07-31
legal: Equal Access Act,Hills v. Scottsdale Unified Sch. Dist., No. 48,
title: Advertising and Commercial Activities
code: 1002.30
---


## General Principles

Support from area businesses plays an important role in the operation of district schools. The following principles define appropriate activities for businesses that are pursuing ways to support district schools or are offering programs appropriate to school-age children.


- Consistency with District and School Academic Standards and Goals. All corporate support or activity shall be consistent with State, District, and school academic standards and goals. Commercial involvement shall also be structured to meet identified educational needs, not commercial motives.


- Consistency with District Non-discrimination Policies and Age-appropriateness. All corporate support or activity shall be consistent with district policies prohibiting discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, handicap, age or sexual orientation, and shall be age-appropriate for the students involved.


- Certain Corporate Support or Activity Prohibited. No corporate support or activity will be permitted in the district or in the schools that:


    - Promotes the use of illicit drugs, alcohol, tobacco, or firearms

    - Promotes hostility, disorder, or violence

    - Attacks or demeans any ethnic, racial, or religious group

    - Is libelous

    - Promotes or opposes any specific religion

    - Promotes or opposes any political candidate or ballot proposition

    - Inhibits the efficient functioning of any school


- District/School Must Control the Curriculum. District/school personnel shall retain the discretion on how or whether to integrate commercially sponsored or provided material or programs into the curriculum. Also, school activities shall not be about a commercial sponsor, e.g., students shall not be required to make art projects or write essays primarily about sponsors.

## Specific Limitations on District and School Based Advertising


- Following are the guidelines regarding advertising in district schools:



    - Advertising is permitted in connection with courses of study that have specific lessons related to     advertising. It will be up to the Director of Curriculum and Instruction to decide whether the lessons     related to advertising are appropriate.

    - Advertising is permitted in yearbooks, school newspapers, and event programs.

    - Advertising is permitted in such supplementary classroom and library materials as newspapers,     magazines, television, the internet, and similar media where they are used in a class such as current     events, or where they serve as an appropriate research tool.

    - Advertising concerning activities of interest to students in the school community shall be allowed     according to the following schedule:

## Category 1

Programs that are appropriate for school-aged students that are offered by 501 (c) 3 federal tax-exempt organizations, or by governmental entities. Distribution of materials is limited to electronic delivery or paper copies, delivered to the school and provided by the advertising organization, available for patrons to pick up at-will in the school office.

## Category 2

Activities or educational programs for students sponsored by Idaho Not-For-Profit organizations; tutors or educational entities offering programs to assist student learning; for-profit music instruction, dance classes, foreign language programs, or other programs that augment educational programs currently offered in district schools. Idaho Not-For-Profit organizations and companies that offer programs that augment student learning may deliver paper copies of their flyers to school offices for patrons to pick up at-will.

## Category 3

For profit companies offering activities or programs deemed appropriate by school district administration for the age group the advertisement is being directed. For-profit companies may deliver paper copies of their flyers to school offices for patrons to pick up at-will.


- Limits on Promotional Information in Curriculum Materials. Neither the district nor any school shall purchase or use any sponsored educational materials that contain promotional information about a product, service, company, or industry that is inappropriate to the lesson being taught in the content of the curriculum.


- Advertising Permitted on Scoreboards, Reader-boards, Buildings, or on District Athletic Fields. Advertising will be permitted on scoreboards, reader-boards, gymnasiums, and athletic fields.


- Students Shall Not be required to Advertise. No corporate relationship shall be permitted which requires students to advertise a product, service, company, or industry. This prohibition on student advertising includes athletic uniforms and equipment, although uniforms and equipment may display the name or logo of the uniform and equipment manufacturer or supplier.


- Advertising Must Conform with Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act of 201- All advertising must conform with restrictions outlined in policy 504.70

## Logos and Sponsorship


- Logos for Identification Only. All company logos appearing on district property, including logos on materials, supplies, or equipment purchases, rented, or leased by or donated to the district, shall be for product or sponsor identification purposes only and shall conform to Idaho High School Activities Association regulations. Logos for sponsor identification purposes shall not be permitted on district property, materials, supplies, or equipment for the purpose of advertising to students. School-based personnel shall be the primary decision makers in the schools regarding whether a sponsor identification logo is for identification or advertising purposes. In determining whether the logo is for identification or advertising, the following criteria should be used; the size and location of the logo, the attention drawn to the logo compared with the intended use of the material, and the age of the students who will view it.


- Vending machine facades may be used for advertising. The name and logo of product manufacturers, such as the soft drink makers, may appear on their machines.


- Sponsorship Recognition. It is appropriate that corporate sponsors and donors receive recognition for their support. Such recognition can be in the form of the corporate name or a logo for identification purposes on the product or materials provided, or a written acknowledgement in an appropriate school publication. Corporate recognition in the form of name plates or donor walls is appropriate and authorized.

## Definitions


- Advertising. Advertising is an oral, written or graphic statement made by the producer, manufacture, or seller or products, equipment, or services which calls for the public’s attention to arouse a desire to buy, use, or patronize the product, equipment, or services. This includes the visible promotion of product logos for other than identification purposes. Brand names, trademarks, logos or tags for product or service identification purposes are not considered advertising. Also, nothing in this policy or procedure is intended to limit announcements, information, or logos of school related non-profit corporations, such as the PTSA, other parent teacher organizations.


- Commercial Activities. Commercial activities are those designed to provide profit for a private business enterprise.


- Sponsorship. Sponsorship is an agreement between a school district, and individual school, or a site based or parent based group with an individual group, company or community-based organization in which the sponsor provides financial or resource support in exchange for recognition.


- School / Business Relationship. A school / business relationship is an agreement between a school or school district and a private entity, wherein the basis and the terms of the relationship are set by the school district,



and agreed upon by the private entity, or reached mutually. Frequently a partnership is less formal than a contractual relationship. The school or school district should not be required by the partnership to sell products to students, expose students to advertisements during school time, or place advertising on school property. A school / business relationship shall not adversely affect or distract from the instructional mission of the school.


- Sponsored Educational Materials. Sponsored Educational Materials, are educational materials and programs developed and/or funded by commercial enterprises, trade organizations, or non-profit organizations with significant corporate backing. These materials are intended for use or distribution at schools, and can be intended for use as either primary or supplemental curriculum.


- Electronic Media. Electronic Media is any type of instruction that happens during school time, or any program shown during school time that requires the use of electronic equipment, such as televisions, video equipment, computers, movie projectors, etc.
