---
created: 2005-07-12
updated: 2020-04-28
reviewed: 2020-04-28
legal: Idaho Code,Title 67, Chapter 77
title: Fundraising Activities
code: 1002.20
---


## ALL BUILDING FUNDRAISERS MUST HAVE THE APPROVAL OF THE BUILDING PRINCIPAL.

The general philosophy of fundraising is to supplement and/or support curricular and extracurricular activities that are part of West Ada School District.

## Definitions

School Fund-Raisers – any fundraiser that directly involves students in generating funds for a curricular or extracurricular activity.

## General Guidelines



- All fundraising efforts will need to target a specified goal or purpose.

- Fundraising activities conducted by raffle shall only be permitted in compliance with Idaho Code Title 67 (State Government and State Affairs), Chapter 77 (Bingo and Raffles).

- Fundraising kick off events and activities should have a minimal effect on instructional time.

- Students will not be allowed to take part in door-to-door fund raising campaigns.

- Donations should not have expectations of favors or playing time connected to the donation.

- Fundraising for travel shall follow Policy 503.70, Student Tours, Excursions and Overnight Trips.

## School Guidelines



- Schools will not select fundraising activities that promote a high level of individual student competition

- Sales fundraisers shall only promote high quality, reasonably priced items

- All costs for any program/activity must be communicated by the coach/advisor prior to participation.

- It shall be the responsibility of the building principal to work with coaches, advisors, and booster groups to control how athletic programs and student activity funds are spent and to ensure that funds raised are appropriate.

- Outside agencies such as PTO, PTA and Boosters will be recognized annually as in good standing by the school.

## Additional High School Guidelines:


When necessary, all activity or program participants will be expected to fund raise or make a personal payment for fees in lieu of fundraising.

## School Accounting Guidelines



- All funds are to be submitted daily to the building bookkeeper, principal or principal designee for receipts.

- No money is to be kept by staff members over night in classrooms, desks, file cabinets etc.

- There will be times when a sponsor will collect small amounts of cash from students and the issuance of individual receipts would not be practical. When this occurs, the sponsor will record the cash receipt or keep cash collection form and submit the cash and the form to the bookkeeper, principal or principal designee at the end of the day. NOTE: SMALL AMOUNTS GENERALLY CONSIST OF $25.00 OR LESS.

## Outside Agencies Guidelines



- Outside agencies such as PTO, PTA and Boosters may fund raise to support any student group or school project.

- Booster groups are required to develop a scholarship process in their fund-raising guidelines for extraordinary situations.

- Fundraising companies must have a refund/replacement policy

## Outside Agencies Accounting Guidelines


Outside agencies should transfer monies to schools or programs using proper accounting procedures. Monies received from Outside Agencies will be deposited into the proper ASB account.

## Charitable Fund Drives

There shall be no collection of money, food or clothing, except as authorized by the building principal.

