---
created: 2018-04-25
reviewed: 2018-04-25
legal: Idaho Code 33-601,

title: Leasing Real Property
code: 1003.11
---


Requests to lease real property owned by West Ada School District (WASD) shall be directed to the assistant superintendent of operations. The lease of WASD real property requires approval by the Board of Trustees and shall be in the best interest of WASD. All individuals or companies that enter into a lease with WASD shall be required to abide by all applicable WASD policies and procedures.

WASD reserves the right to deny, refuse to renew, or cancel any lease agreement if any of the requirements set by WASD are not satisfied.

## Wireless Telecommunication Facilities

Leasing real property for wireless telecommunication facilities will be considered where adequate space exists and under the following conditions:



- Facilities (including towers) must be constructed at least 200 feet from adjoining property lines.

- Facilities (including towers) must be constructed at least 25 feet beyond the fall line from any building owned by WASD.

- The ground lease will be sufficient to provide a fenced barrier no less than 30 feet in diameter around the base of all towers.

- Facilities (including towers) will not be installed at district sites less than 12 acres nor will they be installed on any building owned by WASD.

- Any site owned by WASD will be limited to one (1) wireless telecommunication facility (including tower).

- All towers installed must allow for colocation of telecommunication arrays belonging to additional service providers. Lease agreements with anchor tenants will include language regarding colocation of telecommunication arrays belonging to other service providers for additional rent.

- When submitting for a conditional use permit, the applying company must request maximum height for the tower to allow for colocation.

All approvals and permits from the agency having jurisdiction must be secured by the party interested in leasing WASD real property prior to consideration for approval by the Board of Trustees. A non-refundable application fee is required prior to the start of lease agreement negotiations.

The installation and operation of wireless telecommunication facilities must comply with all governmental agency regulations, including, but not limited to, the FCC, EPA, CDC and the Idaho DEQ. Wireless telecommunication operators are required to abide by all regulatory language during the term of the lease and will take all steps necessary to ensure safe operation of wireless telecommunication facilities, including, but not limited to, removal of all equipment.

