---
created: 1977-10-10
reviewed: 1977-10-10
title: Residential Development
code: 1004.10
---


In the interest of providing our viewpoint to those concerned with residential development within our district boundaries, the board of trustees of West Ada School District hereby submit the following:

Previous school district policy (dated 10/27/75) strongly suggested that development be somewhat curtailed so that enrollment increases might be more readily handled by the district’s financial resources. Subsequent enrollment increases remained unchanged from those prior to 1975, indicating that a recommended moratorium policy was relatively ineffective and did nothing to slow the growth in West Ada School District.

The board of trustees is vitally concerned about the effect residential development has on the quality of education as school enrollments increase. As long as adequate classroom space is available to accommodate additional students, educational opportunities will not generally be adversely affected.

All persons and firms associated with residential development are encouraged to involve school administration officials as plans for residential development are formulated. Recommendations that are made to zoning commissions, councils and commissions having jurisdiction will be in relation to the involvement that occurs in the early stages of planning.

Since reasonable, moderate growth is generally acceptable, it shall be the policy of West Ada School District not to oppose residential development in those areas of the district where:


- Existing schools are able to accommodate the anticipated enrollments.


- Sites have been acquired and plans have been formulated to construct the additional buildings that will be required to accommodate the anticipated enrollments.

Site acquisitions and building programs require financing that, for the most part, is dependent upon voter approval of bond issues. Ultimately, school patrons will determine district policy and residential development.
