---
created: 1997-10-27
updated: 2021-07-13
reviewed: 2021-07-13
legal: Code of Idaho,IDAPA 08.02.03; IC Sections,33-1212 and 33-188
title: K-12 Guidance and Counseling Programs
code: 0602.80
---


West Ada School District will provide a K-12 School Counseling Program that serves students at each elementary, middle, and high school. The K-12 School Counseling Program will include the following components:

- A classroom instructional component that provides appropriate information and activities to assist students in their achievement. School counselors assist with training building staff and facilitating school-wide social emotional learning programs which serve all students.
- An individual planning component that assists students in their personal/social, educational, and career development. Included within this component is a requirement that all students will maintain a parent- approved student learning plan for their high school and post-high school options. Any parent not wanting a plan developed for their child will need to submit a written request to the building principal.
- A responsive services component that provides immediate assistance to students in need of crisis intervention, individual short-term counseling, and/or community referral services for long-term support. School counselors may also facilitate student support groups to assist students with academic and social emotional success.
- A system support component that consists of management activities which establish, maintain, and enhance the effective delivery of school counseling services.
