---
created: TBD
legal: Idaho Code 33-138
title: 0602.23 Student Surveys
code: "0602.23"
---

## STUDENT SURVEYS
No surveys or questionnaires of any kind may be given in the district without prior approval of the building principal or designee. The District may prepare a list of pre-approved inquiries that personnel may use in surveys, without obtaining prior approval of the building principal or designee. Any additional questions must receive approval from the building principal or designee. A standard survey may also be pre-approved by the principal or designee for an entire department, grade, or school’s use.

For the purpose of this policy, the term “survey” shall include, but not be limited to any student inventory, questionnaire or other document of personal inquiry, including any start of the year or start of a course inventory. This term shall not include any test, quiz or educational inquiry of a student relating to progress in a course.

When a survey has been approved by the building principal or designee, the choice of student participation shall be left to the student and/or family/guardian of the student. Accordingly, a student shall be provided with at least 24 hours to complete a survey. When a survey has been administered, school personnel will take steps necessary to assure student privacy associated with survey responses of a confidential nature.

Personnel are expected to comply with the Protection of Pupil Rights Amendment (PPRA) regarding any potential survey, inventory, or other such similar inquiry. Further, any survey administered must follow the Idaho Dignity and Nondiscriminatory in Public Education Act.
