---
created: 08/10/2004
updated: 01/23/2023
reviewed: 01/23/2023
legal: Idaho Code 512A, Idaho Code 1601, Idaho Code 1602, Idaho Code 1603, Idaho Code 1604, Idaho Code 1605, Idaho Code 1606, Idaho Code 1607, Idaho Code 1608, Idaho Code 1609, Idaho Code 1610, Idaho Code 1611, Idaho Code 1612, Idaho Code 1614, Idaho Code 1615, Idaho Code 1616, Idaho Code 1617, Idaho Code 1618, Idaho Code 1619, Idaho Code 1627, Idaho Code 1629, Idaho Code 1630, Idaho Code 1631, Idaho Code 1632, Idaho Code 1633
---

# 0602.21 Selection and Reconsideration of Learning Resources

## Philosophy

The district supports the intellectual freedom principle inherent in the First Amendment of the Constitution of the United States and encourages the accessibility of wide-ranging learning resources at various levels of difficulty, diversity of appeal, and differing viewpoints.[^library-bor] Therefore, consistent with the laws and regulations of the State of Idaho, the Board of Trustees directs the Superintendent or designee(s) to identify and select learning resources in accordance with this principle.


## Criteria for Selection of Learning Resources

For the purposes of this statement of policy, the term “learning resources” will refer to any material, including supplemental materials, print, or digital resources used in any type of classroom setting, with instructional content or in a function that is used for formal or informal teaching/learning purposes.

The following criteria will be used as they apply:

1. Learning resources shall be selected based on their ties to the curriculum, intended audience, and student
age/grade level.
1. Learning resources are acquired to support curricular areas and develop the reading interests of students.
1. Learning resources shall be selected for their overall strengths rather than rejected for their weaknesses. For example, the entirety of the resource shall be examined, rather than a single sentence, phrase or word.
1. Learning resource selection should also consider form, such as:
    1. A well-organized plot which is credible within its own framework;
    1. Convincing characterization;
    1. Skilled use of language;
    1. Honest presentation of emotions, problems, values or ideas;
    1. Originality, contribution to literary appreciation or aesthetic values.
    1. Readability and effectiveness in sustaining reader interest;

## Gift Learning Resources

Gift materials, including materials donated by teachers, parents and students, free materials, commercially sponsored materials and materials donated as a result of a grant, shall be judged by the selection criteria outlined and may be included in library collections or used as classroom resources based on those criteria.


## Supplemental Approved Curriculular Learning Resources - Books

1. Supplemental books used for classroom instruction to instruct the entire class or a large group of the class, in the sense that it has become the curriculum, must be approved by the board.
1. Supplementary books used for classroom instruction must come from the district-approved supplemental book lists. Curriculum coordinators will maintain the lists for each content area.

## Reconsideration of Learning Resources

The district shall establish procedures for the reconsideration of learning resources consistent with the following:

- Only district patrons or employees shall have standing to initiate reconsideration of a learning resource.
- The complainant may not serve on the reconsideration committee.
- Reconsideration committees, when considering a challenge, will use the selection criteria outlined in this policy as a determining factor.
- Should the challenge not be resolved by the Reconsideration Committee, an appeal may be filed with the Board. The Board shall, at its discretion, determine if it is going to uphold the Reconsideration Committee's resolution as a final decision or hear the challenge.
- A district parent or guardian has the right to request a reasonable alternative supplemental learning resource for his/her child. No district parent or guardian has the right to determine learning resources for students other than his or her child(ren).
- Access to the challenged material shall not be restricted during the reconsideration process.
- A decision to sustain a challenge shall not necessarily be interpreted as a judgment of irresponsibility by the professionals involved in the original selection and/or use of the material.
- Materials which have undergone a challenge, may not be challenged again until three calendar years after the recommendation of the committee.


[^library-bor]: Library Bill of Rights - American Library Association https://www.ala.org/advocacy/intfreedom/librarybill
