---
created: 1995-03-22
updated: 2018-11-13
reviewed: 2018-11-13
legal: Code of Idaho,IDAPA 08.02.03.118; Idaho Code 33-203;,33-203; 33-203(9) Idaho Special Education,Manual, Chapter 9,
title: School Special Services
code: 0602.62
---

#  

West Ada School District will maintain an approved special education program utilizing State Board of Education adopted rules. Further, the Board adopts as policy the Idaho Special Education Manual and all subsequent amendments to the manual as developed by the Idaho State Department of Education, Bureau of Special Education. The Idaho Special Education Manual shall be the official manual of the District for providing special education services. The accompanying forms to the Idaho Special Education Manual are not adopted as policy.

In keeping with Federal and State requirements, all students of school age with disabling conditions, ages three (3) through the semester the student turns 21 enrolled in West Ada School District will be provided a free appropriate public education (FAPE) with access to the full range of required services. The district will provide identification, evaluation, placement, and service activities for eligible students. Written Individual Education Programs (IEP’s) shall be developed for each eligible student placed in special education for a handicapping or disabling condition.

## Nonpublic School Students

Public school districts are required by Federal and State regulations to identify nonpublic school students who may need special education and/or related services.

In keeping with these requirements, the West Ada School District follows Child Find procedures as outlined in the Idaho Special Education Manual for evaluation and identification of homeschool students with suspected disabilities who reside within the district’s geographic boundaries.

In keeping with these requirements, the West Ada School District follows Private School procedures as outlined in the Idaho Special Education Manual for district consultation with private school representatives regarding students who are educated within the district’s geographic boundaries.

West Ada School District also provides information to private schools regarding the process such schools can use to make referrals of students with suspected disabilities who reside within the boundaries of the West Ada School District for evaluation purposes.

Definitions:
- **Public school student**: A student who is enrolled at a traditional school district or charter school.
- **Nonpublic school**: A school other than a public school where educational instruction is provided, and can include, but is not limited to, a private school (either for profit or nonprofit) or a home school.
- **Nonpublic student**: A student who receives educational instruction outside a public school classroom and such instruction can include, but is not limited to, a private school or homeschool.
- **Private school**: A nonpublic school that is not funded by and is not under federal or state control or supervision. A homeschool is not a private school.
- **Homeschool student**: A student in preschool through grade twelve not attending a public or private school and receiving educational instruction in a home school setting at the direction of the student’s parent.

