---
created: 2005-08-23
updated: 2018-07-31
reviewed: 2018-07-31
legal: Code of Idaho,33-512A, 33-1601-1612, 33-1614-1619,33-1627, 33-1629-1633,
title: Curriculum & Learning Resources
code: 0602.10
---

#  

CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT, LEARNING and TECHNOLOGY RESOURCES:

Curriculum development and the selection of learning resources are based on the Idaho Content Standards and evidence-based research. For the purposes of this statement of policy, the term “learning resources” will refer to any material including digital resources with instructional content that is used for formal or informal teaching/learning purposes. District curriculum documents will be developed by district personnel under the supervision of the Curriculum Coordinators and the Director of Curriculum, will be approved by the Board of Trustees, and will be used by all district personnel delivering instruction.

District adopted texts and resources shall be used as primary texts and/or resources to support the established district curriculum. Schools shall use the intervention materials provided by the district. Supplemental materials purchased by buildings must meet Idaho Content Standards, and provisions of this policy. All pilots for supplementary programs and/or materials must be approved by the District’s Instructional Team.

Committees will be utilized for the development of curriculum and should be made up of teachers, administrators, and appropriate staff and specialists, under the direction of the Director of Curriculum. Curriculum Coordinators and the Director of Curriculum have responsibility for obtaining approval from the Board of Trustees for the implementation of the curriculum within the district. District curriculum documents, textbooks, digital programs and other curricular materials will be reviewed at regular intervals by an appropriate committee under the direction of the Director of Curriculum.

While it is recognized that teachers will interpret information and often craft individualized presentations in their role as instructors, teachers shall follow the district curriculum.

A current list of all adopted textbooks and resources by grade and subject shall be maintained by the Curriculum Department and will be available on the district web site.

USE AND RESPONSIBILITY FOR TEXTBOOKS and LEARNING RESOURCES:

Textbooks and learning resources that are used in our schools are loaned or checked out at no cost to the students. Students are responsible for textbooks and learning resources assigned to them. Items that are lost, stolen, or show excessive wear or damage are charged to the student. Students must pay fines for missing or damaged items. School personnel must maintain adequate security of resources to prevent loss. It is the responsibility of the school to use these fines to purchase instructional materials that have been lost or damaged on a yearly basis.

MULTI-MEDIA LEARNING RESOURCES:

All software installed to a local hard drive or to the building network must follow the technology review process. Digital resources (e.g., Internet games, applications, or subscription databases) must be directly related to the district curriculum. Audio-visual materials are not to be used unless they are directly related to the district curriculum, and all copyright laws are followed. When used according to this standard, it is recommended that only excerpts of audio- visual materials may be used. As outlined below, some videos, films, or television programs need pre-approval by a building administrator. If a motion picture or television program of extended length is used in its entirety, it must be pre-approved by the building administrator.

Audio-visual materials rated:

(Any film containing nudity must be pre-approved by the building administrator).

- G/TV-Y/TV-G can be shown at all levels
- PG/TV-PG/TV-Y7/TV-Y7FV can be shown at all levels, but pre-approved at elementary
- PG-13/TV-14 can only be shown at the secondary levels, but must be pre-approved for students under the age of 13 (films/videos) or 14 (television programs).
- R/TV-MA cannot be shown at any time at any level in the schools
- NC-17 - cannot be shown at any time at any level in the schools
- Un-rated - can be shown with preapproval at all levels if they are instructional, have been produced for educational use, purchase and/or distribution.

The rating assigned to a video, film, or television program should be a guide as to whether student viewing is appropriate, regardless of the content. If appropriateness of a video, film, or television program is uncertain, a teacher should seek counsel and approval from the building administrator.

