---
created: 2007-10-23
updated: 2018-06-12
reviewed: 2018-06-12
---

# 0602.90 Idaho Digital Learning Academy Classes

The Idaho Digital Learning Academy (IDLA) is a statewide, web-based, educational program set up to provide Idaho students with greater access to a diverse assortment of courses. This virtual high school was created to address the educational needs of all Idaho students: traditional, home schooled, at-risk, gifted, and adult learners. West Ada School District will use IDLA classes to supplement the curriculum and to provide remedial academic support. District teachers, counselors, and administrators will identify those students who will benefit from IDLA classes and recommend those who will meet the additional demand of on-line classes accordingly. Online learning is an alternative to learning in a traditional classroom. It is not for every student. Characteristics that aid in the success of a distance learning student are:

- Reading competency
- Time management skills
- Intrinsic motivation
- Self-discipline

PAYMENT

- If the student is enrolled in six or more district courses or sufficient courses to qualify as full time, the student is eligible to request payment through the State Fast Forward portal.
- If the student is not enrolled in six or more district courses or sufficient courses to qualify as full time, the student is responsible for all tuition and registration fees.
- Repeat courses are not eligible for Fast Forward funds and will be paid for by the student.

ELIGIBILITY

Students who are academically qualified to take a course for high school credit in the West Ada School District, may use IDLA to take the equivalent district course and be granted high school credit.

- No minimum GPA is required to take a course through distance learning.
- All IDLA class enrollments require approval from the counselor/administration.
    - Courses taken through IDLA must correspond to the adopted West Ada School District sequence of courses.
