---
created: 2016-06-14
updated: 2024-09-23
reviewed: 2024-09-23
legal: IC 33-4602
title: 0603.22 Advanced Opportunities Programs
code: "0603.22"
kind: Policy
---

The Board of Trustees recognizes the benefits for students of the Advanced Opportunity Program established by the Legislature of the State of Idaho. Advanced Opportunity Program, funded by the State of Idaho, provide financial assistance for students to earn advanced credits in middle or high school; dual credits; AP or IB exams; CEE exams; designated Career technical examinations that lead to an industry-recognized certificate, license or degree; or CTE workforce training courses.

## DEFINITIONS

- **AP Exams**: Advanced Placement (AP) is a program created by the College Board, which offers college-level curricula and examinations to high school students. Colleges and universities may grant placement and course credit to students who obtain high scores on the examinations.
- **Dual (Concurrent) Credit**: Provides college courses for high school students on the high school or college campus that meets the district curriculum standards along with the college curriculum for the specific class. This program provides an opportunity for high school students to receive both high school and college credits. If a student is taking a dual credit course, the grade listed on their college transcript will reflect the grading practices set by the university or college. The grade listed on the student’s high school transcript will reflect the grading practice set by West Ada. If a university or college grading policy does not mention a specific grading practice, then the grading practice set by West Ada School District will be followed. Colleges and universities have the right to determine how college credits transfer to their institution. Transferability depends on curriculum, college requirements, and degree seeking, and a guarantee of any credit type must be approved through post-secondary advising for that institution. Any concurrent credits offered within West Ada will be transferred to the specific college/university partner for the course listed in the course syllabus.
- **Full Load Course**: Students must be enrolled in a full course load in school, as outlined in Policy 500.1 - Secondary Attendance, to use Fast Forward funds for overload course(s).
- **Overload Course**: A high school course taken outside of the school day that is in excess of a full course load.
- **School Year**: Begins upon the conclusion of the break between grade levels and ends upon the beginning of the same break of the following year.
- **CTE Exams**: Career Technical Education Exams (formerly PTE Exams) are industry examinations that students may take at the completion of a CTE course in an effort to earn industry certifications in the field.

CTE workforce training courses must meet the following requirements:

- Be courses provided by an Idaho public technical college;
- Lead to an industry-recognized certificate, license, or degree;
- Be required training for occupations deemed regionally in demand;
- Be courses that are not otherwise available within the student’s school district; and
- Allow high school-aged students to participate.

- **IB Exams**: International Baccalaureate (IB) exams are a part of the IB program offered at Renaissance High School. Colleges and universities may grant placement and course credit to students who obtain high scores on the examinations.
- **CEE Exams**: College Entrance Exams (CEE) exams that may be required for college admissions, including the SAT, PSAT and ACT.
- **Cumulative GPA**: An average of all semester grades an individual student earned in middle school if a middle school student, or all semester grades an individual student earned in high school if a high school student.
- **Fails to earn credit in a course**: The student receives an F or W on their transcript.
- **Performs inadequately on an examination**: The student fails to sit for any exam, earns less than a 2 on an AP exam, or less than 3 on an IB exam.
- **Repeat courses**: Courses that are taken to replace the grade of a course on the student academic transcript.
- **Remedial Courses**: courses that are below the students’ current grade level.

## ADVANCED OPPORTUNITY PROGRAMS

> Fast Forward “Students attending public school in Idaho will be eligible for $ $4,625 to use towards overload courses, dual credits, college credit-bearing examinations and professional certification examinations." (Idaho Code 33-4602)

### Students are allocated a total of $4,625 to use in grades 7-12. Funds can be used towards:

- Overload course (s): a maximum of $225 per course
- Students must be enrolled in a full course load in school to use Fast Forward funds for overload course(s).
- Students should have a minimum GPA of 3.0 to take overload courses.
- Overload courses cannot be repeat courses or courses taken for remediation.
- An overload course must be taken for high school credit and must be accredited by an organization that accredits Idaho public schools.

### Dual Credits: a maximum of $75.00 per credit.

- Dual credit courses must be offered by a regionally accredited post-secondary institution.
- Dual credit courses are those that help you earn both high school and college credits for the class.
- The dual credit course must be a credit bearing 100 course or higher.

### Examinations: Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate, College Level Examination
Program, Career Technical (Professional Technical) and College Entrance Exams.

- AP, IB, and the CLEP exams that have the potential to earn the same credit as a dual credit college course or another exam will require a student to pick one such opportunity for funding request purposes.
- CTE examinations that lead to an industry-recognized certificate, license, or degree.
- Student can use funds for an initial CEE (ACT, PSAT, and SAT).

### CTE workforce training courses: a maximum of $500 per course and $1000 per year.
- Eligible training courses must be approved and provided by an Idaho public technical college, lead to an industry recognized certificate, license, or degree, be required training for occupations in demand regionally, and are not available at a student's high school.

All courses paid for by Fast Forward must be transcribed on the student’s public high school transcript. Courses taken directly from a college or university will be transcribed as elective credit unless on approved district lists. Students may petition for core credit by completing the post-secondary dual enrollment petition for core credit. Petitions will be reviewed to determine whether core or elective credit will be granted.

If a student fails to earn credit or successfully complete a course for which Fast Forward funds has paid, the student must pay for and successfully earn credit or complete one (1) like course before the Fast Forward funds may pay any further course reimbursements for the student.

If a student performs inadequately on an examination paid for by Fast Forward funds, the student must pay for and successfully pass such exam to continue receiving state funding.

Fast Forward funds may not be used for repeated or remedial courses or exams. Exams and courses that lead to the same outcome will be deemed as repeated courses or exams.
