---
policy: "0401.10"
kind: AR
title: 0401.10-AR-11 Certificated Staff Reduction In Force
---

# Applicable Procedure

## General Statement of Policy
The Board of Trustees has the responsibility to maintain outstanding public elementary and secondary schools and to implement the educational interest of the state, consistent with state and federal educational requirements.    However, recognizing also that a reduction may become necessary to eliminate certificated staff positions in certain circumstances, this policy is adopted to provide a fair and orderly process should such a reduction become necessary.

Reasons for Elimination of Certificated Staff Positions.

The Board of Trustees has the sole and exclusive prerogative to eliminate certificated staff positions consistent with the provisions of the state statutes.

Elimination of certificated staff positions may result from the following examples or from other conditions necessitating reductions:

1.  Decrease in student enrollment
1.  Decrease in program enrollment
1.  Changes in curriculum
1.  Financial conditions or limitations of the District.

The need for implementation of a Reduction in Force (RIF) and/or the elimination of certificated positions is left to the sole discretion of the District's Board of Trustees.

The Board of Trustees may choose to implement a RIF through:

1.  The elimination of an entire program or portions of programs;
1.  The elimination of positions in certain grade levels only;
1.  The elimination of positions in an overall review within a building;
1.  The elimination of positions in an overall review of the District;
1.  The elimination of positions through other considerations and implementation of decisions;
1.  The elimination of a portion or percentage of position(s); or
1.  Any combination of the above.

Definitions:

This policy and procedures shall apply to all employees who hold a certificate issued by the Idaho State Department of Education or the Idaho State Division of Career Technology who are employed in a teaching or administrative position, below the rank of Superintendent.   Certified staff reductions will be based on the teachers' current teaching assignment or in the case of teachers on leave, it will be based on their last teaching assignment.

Procedures:

Prior to commencing action to terminate certificated staff contracts under this procedure, the Board of Trustees will give due consideration to its ability to effectuate position elimination and/or reduction of staff by:

1.  Voluntary retirements
1.  Voluntary resignations
1.  Transfer of existing staff members
1.  Voluntary leave of absence

Reductions in force will be calculated at the building level.  Staff identified for a RIF shall be placed in the pools identified in Employee Groups, and positions will be assigned as available.

Employee Groups - for the purpose of implementing a reduction in force under this policy, personnel shall be grouped using system-wide employee groups as follows:

1.  Pre-K - 5 school teachers;
1.  6-8 middle school teachers grouped separately by certification areas*  (e.g., language arts teachers);
1.  9-12 high school teachers grouped separately by certification areas* (e.g., high school math teachers);
1.  K-12 teachers grouped separately by special subject certification areas (e.g., physical education, health, music teachers);
1.  Career Technical education teachers grouped separately by certification areas (e.g., electrical trades, masonry, auto body, horticulture teachers);

* e.g., principals, instructional supervisors/directors, media coordinators, counselors, speech/language specialists, school psychologists, school social workers; and special education teachers.


Certified staff with a current evaluation will be given a priority in a RIF.  Staff returning from leave will be ranked according to their most recent evaluation and placed after existing staff according to that rank.   Certified employees on Board-approved leaves of absence shall be subject to all provisions of this policy.

In the event a RIF is required, certified staff who are retained pursuant to this policy may be reassigned if suitable position openings are available in instructional areas for which they are certified and for which the principal has approved transfer as per Idaho Code requirements.

If the funding for specially funded positions is reduced or eliminated, certified staff paid by the special funds may be reduced or eliminated.

In the Board of Trustees' determination as to the individuals to be released pursuant to the RIF, consideration may be given to the following criteria:

1.  Certified staff evaluation, including components required by state statute to be encompassed in certified staff evaluation.
1.  Area(s) of certification for which the certified staff is endorsed and are classified by the District as "Hard to Fill" positions.
1.  Number of areas of certification for which the certified staff is endorsed.
1.  Educational/Degree Status.
1.  National Certifications Held..
1.  Position as a Leader or Master Certified staff within the District.
1.  Whether or not the certified staff is endorsed in a course necessary for High School Graduation requirements.
1.  Whether or not the certified staff is endorsed in a course necessary for Middle School advancement.
1.   Contribution and/or involvement in extra-curricular or co-curricular positions with students.
1.  Complaint with the Professional Standards and Conduct over the course of the last five consecutive years.

The Board of Trustees' intention is that the applicable criteria be given a point value for consideration in the implementation of this RIF policy.  The﻿ appended chart, which is adopted and incorporated as part of this policy, identifies the specific point values for each of these areas of consideration.

For each certified staff subject to RIF consideration based upon the Board of Trustees method of implementation, a Certified Staff Profile shall be developed by the HR department, applying the criterion to each respective certified staff.

The factors for consideration shall be reviewed on an annual basis by the District's Administration to determine whether factors should be added or eliminated, or weighted differently. Such recommendations for modification will then be brought before the Board of Trustees for consideration.

The Human Resources Department shall advance notice of the possible RIF to all certified staff who may be released, based upon the number of certified staff who may be released, in whole or in part, and the school program, certified staff positions or categories or positions that may be affected.

With this notification, the Chief Human Resources Officer shall provide a copy of the Certified Staff Profile, utilizing the established point system, and the steps certified staff should take if they believe there is an error in their individual Certified Staff Profile.

If certified staff receiving a Certified Staff Profile believe that there is an error, each such written notice, timely received, shall be individually reviewed for possible reconsideration or evaluation of the information used to create the Certified Staff Profile.   This may include a member of the District's or School's Administration communicating directly with the certified staff to obtain more information or documentation relating to the alleged error.

1.  If the Chief Human Resources Officer determines that an error was made in completion of the Certified Staff Profile, a new profile will be created and provided to the certified staff in question.
1.  If the Chief Human Resources Officer determines that no error was made in completion of the Certified Staff Profile, the certified staff shall be notified of this determination.
1.  The certified staff shall have a period of three (3) school days to file written notice of an appeal of this decision to the Chief Human Resources Officer.   Thereafter, the Chief Human Resources Officer shall review the dispute in whatever manner deemed appropriate for the circumstances, and make a final decision on the issue of the appeal and questioned error of the Certified Staff Profile.

If the Board of Trustees determines that a RIF in fact will be implemented, the Chief Human Resources Officer shall submit a list of the certified staff recommended for release, and shall make recommendation to the Board as to what due process, if any, the Board needs to implement for each individual personnel situation.

All releases shall be done in conformance with the applicable provisions of the Idaho Code and all affected certified staff will be promptly notified, in writing, of the Board of Trustees' decision or actions that need to be taken by the Board relating to applicable due process activities, if any.
