---
policy: "0401.80"
kind: AR
title: 0401.80-AR-02 Certified Grievance Procedure
---

The Board of Trustees acknowledges that it is most desirable for a certificated, non-administrative employee and the appropriate supervisor/administrator to resolve problems through free and informal communication prior to initiating the grievance process.

The purpose of this process is to secure equitable solutions to problems which may, from time to time, arise and cannot be resolved informally. Both parties agree that these proceedings will be kept informal and confidential as may be appropriate at any level of the procedure.

## DEFINITIONS

A **grievance** shall be defined as a written allegation of a violation of Idaho State Code, the Negotiated Agreement, a violation of current Board approved written district policy, or Administrative Regulation directly impacting certified staff. A certificated employee may not grieve a written evaluation.

A **day** , as used in this problem solving mechanism for certificated employees, shall be defined as a working calendar day for certificated employees.  If the grievance extends beyond the regular school year, a **day** means any day, Monday through Friday, exclusive of holidays.

## GUIDELINES

If a certificated employee chooses to file a grievance, said employee shall present the grievance in writing to the Director of Accountability and Support. This must be completed within fifteen (15) days of the personnel action giving rise to the grievance, or no grievance will be processed in accordance with this policy. A written grievance shall meet the following specifications:

- It shall be specific.
- It shall contain a synopsis of the facts giving rise to the violation of Idaho State Code, the Negotiated Agreement, current Board approved written district policy, or Administrative Regulation.
- It shall contain the specific section of Idaho State Code, the Negotiated Agreement, current Board approved written district policy, or Administrative Regulation which has allegedly been violated.
- It shall state the relief requested.
- It shall contain the date of the alleged violation.
- It shall be signed by the certificated employee filing the grievance.

The Director of Accountability and Support shall review the written grievance with the immediate supervisor and schedule a meeting with the certificated employee filing a grievance within five (5) days of receipt of the written grievance to provide a verbal and written response.

If the certificated employee is not satisfied with the response of the Director of Accountability and Support or if there is no response within the timelines, the employee may appeal the grievance to the District’s Superintendent or designee. This must be done within five (5) days of the meeting to provide a verbal and written response or within five (5) days from the date the Director of Accountability and Support last had to respond if the certificated employee received no verbal or written response. Failure to meet this time limitation will result in the conclusion of the processing of the grievance and no further action will be taken.

Within five (5) days of an appeal, the Superintendent or designee shall communicate with the certificated employee and shall provide a written response to the certificated employee. The decision of the Superintendent or designee shall be the final and conclusive resolution of the grievance.

## REPRESENTATION

A certificated employee filing a grievance shall be entitled to a representative of the employee’s choice at each step of the grievance procedure. The immediate supervisor, Director of Accountability and Support, Superintendent or designee shall also be entitled to a representative at each step of the grievance process.

## TIMELINES

The timelines of the grievance process may be waived or modified by written mutual agreement.

## LEGAL APPEAL

Utilization of the grievance process shall not constitute a waiver of any right of appeal available pursuant to law or regulation.

## RETALIATION

Neither the Board of Trustees nor any member of the administration shall take reprisals affecting the employment status of any party in interest, unless such individual, through the use of the grievance process, is discovered to have engaged in conduct which justifies disciplinary action (i.e. the person against whom a grievance was filed has engaged in inappropriate conduct which served as the subject matter of the grievance). The grievant likewise shall take no reprisals against any individual involved in the grievance process.

## REVISION

The administration will work collaboratively with the association should a revision to this Administrative Regulation be necessary.
