---
policy: "0401.10"
kind: AR
title: 0401.10-AR-09 Work Day
---

The work day for all certified staff shall be eight (8) hours, excluding any voluntary or extra paid duties such as supplemental contract assignments or other extracurricular duties for which they are compensated.

District employees are encouraged to participate, if possible, in as many voluntary activities that occur during non-workday hours if directly related to their students, such as Back to School Night and other all-school activities. At the discretion of the principal, the work day schedule can be flexible during the week of an all-school event. If the principal does not provide a flexible schedule, the certified staff will be compensated as outlined in Article I, Item Q of the Negotiated Agreement.

Principals will make every effort to provide a 30-minute duty free lunch to all certified staff. They will also make every effort to assign any or all duties equitably. Certified staff may have the option to be paid an hourly wage as outlined in Article I, Other, of the Negotiated Agreement for working as a noon duty aide.

Principals will schedule the preparatory period for teachers appropriate to the grade level in which the teacher works. This includes making every effort to provide adequate lunch and preparatory periods for special education teachers. Staff are encouraged to notify the building principal if they have concerns about their scheduled preparatory time.

On all instructional days, over the course of a week, a minimum of 50% of all time outside of instructional time, preparatory periods, lunch and passing periods, will be provided for certified staff to use for preparatory time and will not be impeded upon by mandatory meetings or duties unless those activities are required under state or federal law or rule.

Principals will be cognizant of scheduling conflicts that occur when staff is shared between schools or staff who may have a shorter lunch/prep due to other scheduling conflicts. Principals may provide flexible options for staff that have a shorter lunch period or shortened preparatory period due to travel or other exigencies.

The administration will work collaboratively with the association should a revision to this regulation be necessary. This collaboration will occur prior to any revisions being presented to the Board of Trustees.
