---
policy: "0401.18"
kind: AR
title: 0401.18-AR-01 Certified Personnel Transfers
---

### Voluntary Transfers

Building positions are filled on the basis of the certified employee’s certification and endorsements.  An open position is defined as a position unfilled after the building’s master schedule is completed.  All open positions will be posted on the district’s web page under "Join Our Team".

1. Voluntary Transfer applicants interested in moving from one building to another, must log onto the district’s online application system, attach a current resume to the internal application and apply for transfer to the specified job within the seven (7) day vacancy posting.
2. A transfer request does not facilitate a request to change one’s assignment from teacher to counselor, teacher to administrator or to any other specialized assignment.
3. If there are four (4) or fewer transfer applicants request to be considered for an opening, a hiring manifest consisting of voluntary transfer applicants and others from the Involuntary Transfer pool and/or general applicant pool will be created by the principal or supervisor.  If there are five (5) or more transfer applicants to be considered for an opening, only transfer applicants will be used to create the hiring manifest.
4. If there are more than seven (7) transfer applications for any one position, a minimum of seven (7) applicants from the Voluntary Transfer List or Involuntary Transfer pool will be placed on the hiring manifest for any one open position.  If more than one position for which the applicant is qualified is available at a building, a single interview will suffice.
5. Teachers on an improvement plan or probation can only be considered for transfer if both principals agree to the transfer.  The improvement plan will be reviewed and may be modified by the new administrator and/or the improvement team.
6. None of the provisions of the voluntary transfer will be applicable after the third (3rd) Friday in July for the following school year.

### Involuntary Transfers

  
The involuntary transfer procedure applies to staff members identified as certified staff in excess of FTE allocation in a given school, department/content certification within department, or program (i.e, special education, Gifted and Talented, Federal Programs, Math, ELA, etc).  This procedure only applies when a certified staff member must transfer to another building.  Teacher placement within a building is at the principal's discretion.
  
1. Nothing in this policy prohibits voluntary transfers from occurring if the person holding the eliminated position followed the voluntary transfer procedures as described above, so long as it applies prior to the third (3rd) Friday of July.
2. Teachers voluntarily transfer and/or an involuntary transferring will be given equal opportunity to transfer to a new location.
3. All positions are posted on the district’s website under “Join Our Team”.
4. In the event that an involuntary transfer does not secure a position in the district, the transfer will be placed in a position that the person is qualified to fill.

### Involuntary Transfer Procedure

  
When the district determines that there is a surplus of professional staff in a building, the person with the least building seniority in the identified surplus certification area will be transferred to another school in the district where there is an appropriate vacancy.  If a tiebreaker is required, district seniority will take precedence. In the event of a tie in district seniority, the date of initial job acceptance will be used. 

### Building Seniority Defined

Building seniority is defined as continuous years in a building with the following exceptions:  
1. Employees transferring to another building in the district shall be credited with as much as three (3) years of their district experience to be applied to their building seniority.
2. Employees that have contract or health leave and return to the same building will retain their years of service in the building.

### New Schools

When opening a new school, the following criteria will apply:

1. No more than 40% of certified staff from any one grade level (K-6), department (7-12), or program (K-12) within an existing school may transfer to the new school if there are three (3) or more staff currently assigned.  
2. No more than 50% of certified staff from any one grade level (K-6), department (7-12), or program (K-12) within an existing school may transfer to the new school if there are two (2) staff currently assigned.  
3. 100% of certified staff from any one grade level (K-6), department (7-12), or program (K-12) within an existing school may transfer to the new school if there is only one (1) staff member currently assigned.

Exceptions to the above criteria will be determined by district administration due to extenuating circumstances.

### Assignments/Certification

In the event a staff member must be placed in a certification area for which she/he is certified but has not had teaching experience or major preparation, she/he will have the opportunity to request a different assignment the following year by following the voluntary transfer process.  
  
An employee shall not be assigned to a position outside the area(s) authorized by certification requirements of the Idaho Department of Education.  If no appropriate vacancy is available for a person on the involuntary transfer list, then employee will be placed in a position they are qualified for as the individual’s primary assignment will be initiated.

### Secondary School Exceptions

Personnel assigned as head coaches, choir, band, cheerleading, student council, drama, debate, speech, newspaper, yearbook, drill team, athletic trainer in the secondary schools and middle school athletic/activity coordinator shall be exempt from this policy and will continue to be assigned by the Superintendent or designee.
