---
policy: "0402.10"
kind: Regulation
title: 0402.10-AR-03 Classified Personnel Resignations, Retirement, Suspension and Dismissal
---

## RESIGNATIONS

It is requested that all classified personnel provide a minimum of fifteen (15) days' notice prior to leaving their position.  Advance notice is to support the District in finding a satisfactory replacement to ensure continuity in services.

## RETIREMENT

Retirement policies are established by State of Idaho public employee policies. It is requested that all classified personnel provide a minimum of fifteen (15) days' notice prior to leaving their position for retirement.

## SUSPENSION AND DISMISSAL

Classified personnel may be suspended with or without pay for disciplinary reasons as determined by their immediate supervisor or building principal, with approval from the Chief Human Resources Officer.  Such suspension shall be in writing, setting forth the reason(s) for the suspension and informing them of their right to file a grievance following the procedures as outlined in Administrative Regulation 402.10-AR-07.
 
A classified personnel's immediate supervisor or principal may dismiss said personnel, with approval from the Chief Human Resources Officer.  Such dismissal shall be in writing, setting forth the reason(s) for dismissal and informing the dismissed personnel of their right to file a grievance with the appropriate supervisor, following the procedures outlined in Administrative Regulation 402.10-AR-07.

## REDUCTION IN CLASSIFIED STAFF

The Chief Human Resources Officer or designee shall make determinations on the appropriate number of personnel. A reduction of personnel may occur as a result of, but not be limited to, changes in the education program, financial conditions or limitations of the district, personnel realignment, changes in the size or demographics of the student population or for other reasons relevant to school district operations.

Such determinations will be presented to the Superintendent, who will make final recommendations to the Board of Trustees and may consider performance evaluations, personnel needs, date of hire, and other reasons deemed relevant in order to determine the order of dismissal should reductions in classified personnel become necessary.

