---
policy: "0402.10"
kind: AR
title: 0402.10-AR-05 Classified Personnel Fringe Benefits and Salary
---

## Salary Schedule

### Merit Salary Increases
Vertical advancement on the salary schedule is limited to one step per year and will be based on an employee receiving a satisfactory evaluation.  It is not automatic and there is no annual entitlement.  Annual salary increase occurs only through action by the Board of Trustees through the budgeting process.  Eligibility for the annual salary increase for employees hired within the current fiscal year includes: 

- Employees that work for less than 230 days at 20 hours or more a week must work for a full semester.
- Employees that work 230 days or more at 20 hours or more a week must be employed prior to December 31st.

### Salary Placement Upon Hire
All positions must have a job description with the District and will be placed on the proper salary schedule by the Human Resources Department. 

Initial placement shall be made at the first step of the salary schedule for the position.  Advanced Placement up to six (6) years on the salary schedule will be granted if the new hire employee provides documentation of work experience following the criteria as outlined below: 

- Work experience must be relevant and relatable to the particular job assignment.
- Work experience must have occurred within the last seven (7) years.
- Documentation must be on official or business letterhead, or confirmed through reference check, from the previous employer(s).
- Documentation should verify years of service and job responsibilities.
- Documentation should be submitted to the Human Resources Department at the District Office.
- Work experience must exceed half time for eligibility.
- Documentation must be received in the Human Resources Department within three months from the time employee begins working. It is the employee’s responsibility to provide documentation.

When the education, training, and/or experience of an employee are such that a salary in excess of the first six (6) steps is justified, the Chief Human Resources Officer may authorize placement at a higher step in the salary grade, with consideration of any prior frozen movement in the schedule.  Decision on the application of such advance placement shall be final with the Chief Human Resources Officer and not subject to appeal.

If experience step(s) are granted, the hourly increase will be retroactive to the date of hire. To ensure that the proper step and grade is recorded, a payroll change form must be submitted to the Human Resources Department.

### Salary Upon Promotion
An employee who is appointed to a position in a classification allocated to a higher salary schedule than the employee’s present position will receive the next highest monthly salary which is at least five percent (5%) higher than the employee’s previous base salary, but in no case more than the top step of the new salary schedule range. The effective date for the new salary will be the effective date of the position change. 

### Salary Upon Demotion
The salary of an employee who is demoted for cause to a position allocated to a lower salary range than the employee’s current position shall be reduced to a step in the salary range for the position to which the employee has been demoted to. The Chief Human Resources Officer shall determine the step within the salary range on which the demoted employee will be placed. 

An employee voluntarily demoted will be placed at the nearest lower monthly salary step to the employee’s current position in the salary range for which the position to which they have voluntarily demoted to. 

### Merit Increases for Exceptional Circumstances
Terms and conditions of salary in this regulation supersede all previous salary schedules. There are no other agreements or understandings not contained in this regulation and all communications, understandings, agreements - expressed or implied - not embodied here shall be and are null and void and of no legal or enforceable effect. 

Nothing in this regulation shall restrict the District’s right to contract or subcontract out work currently being performed by classified employees. This reserved right is without qualification.

## FRINGE BENEFITS
Please refer to the District's Annual Benefit Guide.

## PRORATED BENEFITS
Please refer to the District's Annual Benefit Guide.

## TUITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
Classified Employees have a $10,000 Tuition Assistance Program which is used to pay for classes, workshops, seminars, certification examinations or competency assessments that are directly related to the job position they hold with the District.  Employees are entitled to 60% of total cost of class, exam, books and/or study guides.  If the class cost is $60 or less, 100% of the class, exam, books and/or study guides will be paid.  Each employee may receive a maximum of $500 a year.  Classes, workshops and seminars must be completed in the same school year as reimbursement is requested. 
 
Employees on leave are not eligible for tuition assistance. 
 
Applications are available from the District Office.

Tuition Assistance monies are District funds, overseen by the Classified Executive Board with final approval by the Chief Human Resources Officer.  If funds are still available as of June 1, the Chief Human Resources Officer will review additional requests from that school year.  This includes those who have exceeded the $500 maximum.

## SECTION 125 CAFETERIA FLEXIBLE BENEFITS PLAN
For each benefit eligible classified employee, the board agrees to provide employer-paid fringe benefits as follows:

- Employee $50,000 term life insurance with accidental death and dismemberment.

- Employee health program (employee contributes $25 per month).

- Employee Short Term Disability

Each full-time classified employee may annually set aside a portion of their wages, up to the maximum amount allowable under the Internal Revenue Code for Medical Reimbursement and for Dependent Care using the Flexible Spending Plan. This amount may be allocated for benefits for themselves and/or their dependents.

The individual changes in allocation of benefits or payroll deductions may be made annually during open enrollment, except for qualifying life events.

## CAREER ENHANCEMENT

Eligibility for Career Enhancement is determined by total years of service in West Ada School District.
- 15-19 years in district will receive $600.00 annually.
- 20-24years in district will receive $900.00 annually.
- 25-29 years in district will receive $1,200.00 annually.
- 30+ years in district will receive $2,400.00 annually.
