---
policy: "0402.10"
kind: AR
title: 0402.10-AR-04 Classified Personnel Compensation Time
---

This compensation time policy covers unanticipated increases in the regular workload of employees which have been approved for work by the Principal or District level supervisor.

This policy allows eligible employees to receive compensation time off (CTO) with pay equal to one and one-half times the hours worked in excess of 40 hours per week, or their usual schedule worked.

## ELIGIBILITY

Regular, full-time employees working in excess of 40 hours per week, or their usual schedule worked, with advance authorization of the principal or district level supervisor, are eligible for compensation time.

## PROCEDURE

All compensation time must be authorized in advance by the principal or supervisor. Hours approved for compensation time off must be recorded on the time clock and initialed by the building principal or supervisor.

## USING ACCRUED COMPENSATION TIME

Employees who are absent on compensation time off will not be provided a substitute unless authorized by the Human Resources Director or designee Compensation time usage must be recorded on the time clock and on the monthly employee attendance form, initialed by the principal or supervisor.

## LIMITATIONS

Eligible employees may accrue 40 hours or 5 days of compensation time. 

Principals and District level supervisors are responsible for administering and enforcing the compensation time maximums. Compensation time may not be carried forward into the next school year; all compensation time must be used by June 30, or will be paid out on the next paycheck.  Compensation time may not be accrued 30 days prior to the employee’s last work day.

The Chief Human Resources Officer or designee shall maintain a register of FLSA exempt employees. 

Principals and district level supervisors are responsible for accurate reporting of compensation time and for submitting time clocks to payroll by their employees.
