---
policy: "0403.80"
kind: AR
title: 0403.80-AR-02 Work Day
---

## WORKING HOURS

The workday for all certified staff shall be eight (8) hours, excluding any voluntary or extra paid duties such as supplemental contract assignments or other extracurricular duties for which they are compensated, as outlined in Administrative Regulation 401.10 AR-09. 

Classified employees including but not limited to District Office staff, secretaries, bookkeepers, teacher assistants, custodians, grounds, maintenance, and school lunch personnel work up to eight (8) hours per day. Actual hours and daily work schedule will be determined by their immediate supervisors and will be indicated in the adopted job description.

Other classified employees will work the hours specified by their immediate supervisors and will be so indicated on the adopted job description.

All scheduled working hours are exclusive of lunch breaks. The District will follow rules and regulations of the Fair Labor and Standards Act (FLSA). To remain in compliance, supervisors must monitor work schedules to assure that no employee works in excess of normal scheduled hours except as provided for in policy.


## CLASSIFIED PROBATIONARY PERIOD

All new classified employees will be hired on a 180 workday probationary period. The building principal or supervisor will provide a written evaluation of the new employee’s performance as exhibited during this probationary period. The employee will be notified whether employment will be continued beyond the probation period or terminated.
