---
policy: "0403.90"
kind: Regulation
title: 0403.90-AR-07 Legislative Leave
---

Personnel may request a Leave of Absence for the purpose of serving in the State Legislature.

## CERTIFIED:

Certified personnel granted Legislative Leave will have their salaries reduced by 50% of their daily rate of pay based on the number of days on Legislative Leave. The maximum total deduction will not exceed the annual salary paid to legislators.

While on Legislative Leave, the individual will continue the oversight of their contractual responsibilities as determined by their supervisor. For example, a teacher’s responsibilities may include:

- Student achievement

- The development of daily lesson plans

- Meeting with the substitute on a weekly basis

- The calculation and reporting of student grades

- Communication with parents

## ADMINISTRATIVE

Administrators granted Legislative Leave will have their salaries reduced equal to the gross amount of the annual salary paid to legislators.

While on Legislative Leave, the administrator will continue to maintain full responsibility for their administrative position. Daily contact at the individual’s work location must be maintained. Appointments and meetings that are critical to the administrator’s position must take precedence over legislative work.

## CLASSIFIED

Classified personnel will not receive pay during Legislative Leave. The District will continue to pay benefits while on Legislative Leave to the same extent and in the same manner paid prior to personnel taking Legislative Leave.

## MILITARY LEAVE

The Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act (USERRA) is a federal law protecting the job rights of persons who leave their jobs voluntarily or involuntarily to undertake military service or service in the National Disaster Medical System. USERRA affects employment, reemployment, and retention in employment, when personnel serve or have served in the uniformed services. 38 U.S.- § 4301-4334.

Personnel who are members of the National Guard or other military reserve units are entitled to leave without pay for the purpose of participating in training or deployment activities. Written requests for military leave shall be submitted to the Principal or supervisor immediately after notification of status by the Guard or Reserve. In the event that District daily compensation exceeds military daily compensation, the National Guard and Reserve unit personnel are eligible for limited compensation up to the difference between the taxable income they receive from the Guard and Reserve while on approved Military Leave and their District pay. This compensation is limited to a maximum of three (3) weeks per year. In the event that military pay exceeds District pay, personnel will not receive District compensation. Military Leave beyond three (3) weeks shall be Leave Without Pay.
