---
policy: "0403.90"
kind: AR
title: 0403.90-AR-10 Classified Personnel Leaves
---

## VACATIONS

Classified salaried employees who are employed on a regular basis 239 days or more per year and who work 4 hours or more per day, shall earn Vacation Leave as follows, which will be accrued on a monthly basis.  Any employee who works less than 7½ hours per day accrues vacation time on a prorated basis.  Part-time employees who work less than 4 hours per day and/or less than eleven months per year are not eligible for paid Vacation Leave. 

| YEARS of WASD SERVICE | MONTHLY ACCRUAL (days per month) | ANNUAL ACCRUAL | ANNUAL MAXIMUM |
|-------|----------------------------------|----------------|----------------|
| 1-5   | .83 dpm                          | 10 days        | 15.0 days      |
| 6     | .91 dpm                          | 11 days        | 16.5 days      |
| 7     | 1.00 dpm                         | 12 days        | 18.0 days      |
| 8     | 1.08 dpm                         | 13 days        | 19.5 days      |
| 9     | 1.16 dpm                         | 14 days        | 21.0 days      |
| 10    | 1.25 dpm                         | 15 days        | 22.5 days      |

 Part-time employees who work less than 4 hours per day and/or less than eleven months per year are not eligible for paid Vacation Leave. 

New employees are eligible to use Vacation Leave after completion of 90 days of satisfactory service. After 90 days, vacation time will be credited retroactive to the initial employment date, at the rate of .83 days per month. 

Use of Vacation Leave is subject to the approval of the employee’s Principal and/or supervisor.  Vacation Leave may not be taken two weeks prior to the first day of school or within the first two weeks of the first day of school. Vacation Leave is to be taken on consecutive days unless otherwise authorized by Principal and/or supervisor.

In the event an employee becomes ill during approved Vacation Leave, time will not be charged as vacation and sick leave can be used provided the employee submits medical certification to cover each day the employee was absence from work due to illness. 

When an employee no longer works for the District, all accrued and unused vacation leave will be paid to the employee on their final paycheck. Vacation payout will not be paid using funds from Federal programs.

## HOLIDAYS

Full time, permanent classified employees qualify for Holidays or equivalent compensation consistent with the District's annual calendar of Holidays as applicable for each school year as corresponds to the classified employee's annual school calendar and number of contract days.  
 
Instructional assistants may be required to attend in-service or workshop sessions, or other duties as assigned by the principal or supervisor.  Calendars for most job categories are distributed to the employees and are available in the District’s Human Resources Department. 

## SICK LEAVE

All regular classified employees working 20 hours or more per week accrue sick leave time at the rate of one prorated day for each month of service or major fraction thereof. Unused sick leave may be accumulated up to 260 days. Employees with fifty (50) or more sick leave days as of June 30 will receive one (1) additional personal leave day. 

Termination of employment shall terminate sick leave rights except as provided for in Idaho Code 33-1216, 33- 1217, 33-1228.

Permitted uses for Sick Leave for absences are as follows:
 * Diagnosis, care, or treatment of the existing health condition of an employee or member of the employee’s immediate family member, including, the employee’s spouse, dependent or minor children or parents or as otherwise defined in the District's Negotiated Agreement with its certified professional employees.
 * Preventative care for an employee or a member of the employee’s immediate family.

Extension of vacation or holiday time, or reasons other than listed above are not a permitted use of Sick Leave.

Complications of pregnancy or childbirth may result in absences for which Sick Leave may be taken.  It is anticipated that for normal child birth a period of no more than six (6) calendar weeks of Sick Leave following the birth of the child will be required.  For a C-section, it is anticipated that no more than eight (8) calendar weeks will be required.   Additional days of approved Sick Leave require a doctor’s certification and approval by the Chief Human Resources Officer.  

If family illness outside the immediate family should arise, sick leave may be used with the approval of the Principal or supervisor.

Human Resources may request that an employee produce medical certification for the use of sick leave for absences in excess of three (3) consecutive days or when a pattern of absences is observed.  

In all cases if absence from work exceeds a period of ten (10) consecutive working days, the employee must furnish to Human Resources a doctor’s certification that medical complications are such that the employee is unable to carry on their duties satisfactorily.  Prior to return to work, an employee returning from an absence in excess of ten (10) consecutive days, a medical release from the employee's health care provider must be submitted to Human Resources.  The release should include any accommodations that are necessary for the employee to resume work. 

When an employee transfers from one District to another or from a District to a state education agency, the district will accept an individual’s accumulated sick leave from another District in Idaho up to that District’s maximum number of sick leave days and not to exceed the number allowed in our Master Contract. However, a maximum of 90 days of transferred sick leave can be counted toward PERSI retirement. All Transfers of sick leave can only be counted if the employee is employed during the school year immediately following the year of their resignation/termination from the previous district. (See Idaho Code section 33-1217). If an employee goes from a state education agency to a school district, no sick leave is available for transfer. (See Idaho Code section 67- 5333).

## PERSONAL LEAVE

Regular classified employees that work more than 20 hours per week earn two (2) days of prorated Personal Leave per year.  Regular classified employees that have worked continuously for the District for ten (10) years shall be granted one (1) additional Personal Leave day per year.  The maximum number of days that can be used in anyone (1) year shall be for six (6) days.  Unused Personal Leave may accumulate from year to year up to a maximum of six (6) days.  At the end of the school year Personal Leave days in excess of six (6) shall be paid to the employee at the prorated amount of $60 per day for full-time work.  Personal Leave must be arranged in advance and approved by the Principal.  Personal Leave days may not be taken the last two (2) weeks of school.   

## BEREAVEMENT LEAVE

The Board agrees to grant to each employee up to five (5) days of Bereavement Leave for each death in the immediate family (grandfather, grandmother, father, mother, brother, sister, husband, wife, child, grandchild, foster or step-child, father-in-law, mother-in-law, step-parent, step-sibling, aunt, uncle, cousin) for the purpose of attending services, travel and/or emotional support of family. 

Additional Bereavement leave time may be granted under unusual circumstances. Requests for additional time must be directed through the Building Principal to the Chief Human Resources Officer. 

## PARENTAL LEAVE

Parental Leave of absence for child-rearing may be granted to classified and administrative employees, without pay, for up to one year.  Requests for Parental Leave of absence shall be submitted in writing, indicating the approximate beginning and ending dates. Parental Leave and extended Parental Leave approvals are subject to availability of qualified, acceptable substitutes. 
 
Although Parental Leave of absence may be granted at any time, it is recommended that leave conforms to logical breaking points such as a grading period or vacation period.  When appropriate, Parental Leave of absence shall end at such time that the employee returns to work at the beginning of a semester. 
 
The classified employee may return to the District in a position for which she/he is qualified, but is not guaranteed the same position and assignment previously held. 

## UNPAID LEAVE

Unpaid Leave is to be used sparingly and is intended for unique and limited situations.   Unpaid Leave may only be used after Personal Leave Days and Vacation Leave Days have been used.  If the leave qualifies for Sick Leave, all Sick Leave must be used prior to requesting and/or being granted Unpaid Leave. 
 
Requests for Leave without pay must be submitted and approved by the Director of Human Resources prior to the date(s) requested; those requests due to emergency and/or extenuating circumstances may be approved by the immediate supervisor and then approved by the Director of Human Resources.   
 
Excessive use of Unpaid Leave of Absence, as determined by the District's Human Resources Department or employee's immediate supervisor may result in disciplinary action up to and including possible termination. 
