---
policy: "0403.50"
kind: Regulation
title: 0403.50-AR-03 Professional Appearance
---

Dress Code applies to all district personnel, at all locations. Clothing for all personnel should be neat, clean, in good repair, without rips, tears, or holes, and appropriate to the personnel's specific workplace environment. Business casual attire shall be the standard dress for personnel with the following exceptions:

Because of the nature of their work, some personnel will need to wear clothing that is applicable and appropriate to the nature of their work, including footwear, clothing, and headwear that are appropriate for their safety.

Physical education teachers, coaches, and athletic volunteers should wear the appropriate attire necessary to meet the requirements of their job responsibilities. Physical education teachers must follow the personnel dress code on parent conference days, and other occasions when not instructing a class.

The guidelines contained in this regulation are not intended to prohibit clothing that is appropriate for thematic instruction activities, or clothing that is necessary for the instruction in a particular classroom, such as lab coats, painting smocks, aprons, jumpsuits, clothing applicable to CTE trades, etc.

Principals may designate days when reasonable modifications to this dress code may be made, such as spirit or theme days, etc. Such days must be set by the school administrator or work area supervisor. No personnel shall be required to make a monetary contribution to take part in such days.

For the purposes of this dress code, business casual is defined as clothing that is less formal than traditional business wear but is still intended to give a professional impression. Examples of business casual attire include but are not limited to:

- Slacks, dress pants, khakis, chinos, dresses, skirts, non-tattered jeans,
- Button-down shirts, sweaters, blouses, polo shirts, cardigans, blazers, sport coats,
- Simple, professional accessories such as scarves, ties, belts, or jewelry.
- Nothing in this dress code shall be construed to restrict or ban personnel from wearing religious clothing and/or accessories, with the exception of unprotected speech. Personnel having religious-based concerns regarding the dress code are encouraged to discuss them with their supervisor. Any appeals of the supervisor’s decision shall follow the District’s grievance process.
