---
policy: "0403.50"
kind: AR
title: 0403.50-AR-07 Nepotism and Romance in the Workplace
---

## Definitions

To minimize the risk of conflicts of interest and promote fairness, the District maintains the following expectations with respect to nepotism and romance in the workplace.

**Relative**: father, mother, husband, wife, son, daughter, sister, brother, uncle, aunt, nephew, niece, mother-in-law, father-in- law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, grandparent, great-grandparent, cousin.

**Supervise**: the authority to recommend or approve the relative’s appointment, promotion, salary, evaluation, termination, or other similar personnel action.

## Process

No principal, supervisor or district employee shall be responsible for the supervision and/or evaluation of any employee directly related to him/her or whom directly involved in a romantic or dating relationship. No District employee shall directly supervise another employee who is a relative, or are in a relationship with, and have direct responsibility over their salary, wages, pay, or compensation. The District employee shall not evaluate the relative’s job performance or recommend salary increases for the relative or romantic relationship.

Current employees of the District working at the same site, but not in a supervisory and/or evaluative relationship, shall be allowed to continue until such a relationship changes.

Persons currently employed by the District prior to the inception of such relationship may be transferred to another building or placed under different supervision, if necessary, to eliminate potential conflicts of interest.
