---
policy: "0403.90"
kind: Regulation
title: 0403.90-AR-06 Certificated Personnel Leaves
---

## HEALTH LEAVE

Certificated personnel requesting extended time off for personal or family health reasons beyond the Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA) allotment shall submit a written request to the Human Resources Department. The Chief Human Resources Officer will submit a recommendation to the Board who may grant the Health Leave. Health leave shall be for a maximum of one (1) academic year. Certified personnel who are granted Health Leave will not be guaranteed a specific position upon return to work and is only guaranteed a certified position, subject to the Reduction in Force (RIF) policy.

## CONTRACT LEAVE

Upon written request, the Chief Human Resources Officer may recommend that the Board grant Contract Leave for a minimum of one (1) semester and a maximum of one (1) year.

Certified personnel are eligible for Contract Leave after completing five (5) consecutive years of full-time service without another unpaid leave of absence. The use of contract leave of any length requires that personnel complete another five (5) years of full-time service before becoming eligible for another contract leave.

Contract leave will not be granted for employment by another school district.

Not more than ten percent (10%) of certified personnel in any given building may be granted contract leave at any one time.

Certified personnel who are granted contract leave will not be guaranteed a specific position and is only guaranteed a certified position subject to the RIF policy.

## GENERAL INFORMATION

Certified personnel on unpaid leave must submit in writing prior to February 1st their intent to return to the District the following year.

Unpaid leaves of absence may only be granted for one (1) complete school year.

Certified personnel on an unpaid leave of absence retains existing contract status and sick leave accumulation as of the date the leave begins. Further accrual does not take place while on leave.

While on leave the personnel has the right to continue the insurance coverage at the personnel’s expense.

## SICK LEAVE 

Certified personnel shall refer to the Negotiated Agreement, Article IV. 

## PERSONAL LEAVE 

Certified personnel shall refer to the Negotiated Agreement, Article V. 

## PARENTAL LEAVE 

Certified personnel shall refer to the Negotiated Agreement, Article VI. 

## BEREAVEMENT LEAVE 

Certified personnel shall refer to the Negotiated Agreement, Article VII. 

## PROFESSIONAL LEAVE 

Certified personnel shall refer to the Negotiated Agreement, Article VIII. 
