---
policy: "0403.60"
kind: Regulation
title: 0403.60-AR-11 Donated Leave
---

This program is designed to assist personnel who are on an approved Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA) leave of absence and have exhausted all forms of paid leave due to a serious, catastrophic illness or injury, either of their own or of a qualifying immediate family member. This program allows personnel to donate accrued leave to eligible colleagues, so the recipient is able to remain on paid status. Leave donations may be approved for a maximum of 30 days.  Donations will be individual personnel situations and applied as needed. Personnel will not carry a “bank” of donated days.  

Personnel must meet the following requirements to be eligible to receive donated leave: 

- Leave must qualify for FMLA. 
- Personnel, or eligible family member, must have a verifiable serious or catastrophic illness or injury that requires an extended period of treatment or recuperation. Serious or catastrophic illness or injury is one in which the personnel is incapacitated and unable to work as certified by the doctor’s note for at least four (4) full workweeks. In addition, the personnel must provide a doctor’s note that includes a reasonable expectation that the personnel will be able to return to full duty within five (5) months of the absence from work. The employee must provide a doctor’s note if an eligible family member requires care for a catastrophic illness or injury. 
- Personnel must have exhausted all paid leave. 
- Personnel may not be concurrently receiving short or long-term disability, workers’ compensation or similar paid benefits. 
- Any donated sick leave that has not been used by the end of the school year will not roll over into the new school year. 
- Personnel may not self-solicit for donations. 

Personnel donating leave must meet the following requirements to be eligible to donate: 

- Must have worked for at least 1 academic year. 
- All donations of leave are voluntary. Personnel are not required to donate leave. 
- Personnel must donate leave in increments of half or full days. 
- The maximum days that may donated is 3 days. 
- Personnel can only donate to a recipient in a “like” position (e.g. certified to certified; classified to classified; administrator to administrator). 
- Donated leave is credited to the receiving personnel's leave of absence on a or hour for hour basis, as needed, and shall be paid at the rate of pay of the personnel receiving the donation. Donations will be processed in the order received by the Human Resources Department.
- Once leave is donated and posted to the receiving personnel, the personnel donating leave shall irrevocably lose all rights and privileges to the donated leave hours. 

Donated hours must be used on a continuous and uninterrupted basis until the following occurs: 

- All donated leave is exhausted. 
- Personnel returns to work. 
- Personnel begins receiving long-term disability. 
- Personnel’s employment terminates. 

Personnel wishing to donate sick leave shall contact the Human Resources Leave Specialist. 