---
policy: "0403.50"
kind: AR
title: 0403.50-AR-04 District Physical Property
---


## CARE OF PROPERTY

All staff and students all play a crucial role in maintaining the beauty and upkeep of school buildings and grounds. Staff are responsible for the proper use of school property committed to their care and custody. Students should be trained to respect school buildings and materials.

Loss or damage of equipment should be reported immediately to the principal or supervisor.

No school equipment is to be loaned to outside parties without the permission of the principal or supervisor.

Teachers are expected to assist the custodian by turning out lights, closing and locking the windows, and by drawing the shades to the height specified, upon leaving the room at the close of the day.

## USE OF DISTRICT-OWNED PHYSICAL PROPERTY

Regarding the teaching of controversial issues, personnel are directed to Policy 602.20. 
 
Policy 100.01 and the Code of Ethics for Idaho Professional Educators shall be read consistently with this regulation. Nothing contained in this regulation limits any employee or student of the District from exercising lawfully recognized independent speech or association rights, consistent with all other Policies and/or regulations and as appropriate in a limited public forum public school setting or engaging in instruction of subjects consistent with the District’s Policy and approved curriculum.  This policy governs the use of District-owned physical property for displays, decorations, and visual content within classrooms and other school facilities, including both permanent and temporary materials.
 
This regulations applies specifically to the use of District-owned physical property and does not restrict private speech outside of that context. It is the desire of the District that the physical environment of District facilities be content-neutral, conducive to a positive learning environment, and not a distraction to the educational environment. 

West Ada also believes that all physical property of the District should encourage a positive learning environment, and the classroom should be arranged in such a manner to support the instructional goals and District-approved curriculum. To foster these goals, the only other flags, or banners (including posters, signs, pictures or other digital or physical images) that may be flown, posted, or affixed to the physical property of the District will be content neutral and conducive to a positive learning environment. 

### Content Neutral

For the purposes of this policy, *content neutral* refers to displays, images, or materials that are directly related to the approved curriculum, school operations, or student achievement. Displays may not promote or oppose any political, ideological, religious, or socially contentious position. 

Visuals that are **not content neutral** refer to any symbol or physical representation that meets one or more of the following criteria and are determined to be inconsistent with this policy by the building principal, in consultation with district administration and, when appropriate, legal counsel: 

1. The subject of current intense public argument, disagreement, or disapproval. 
2. Includes political messages, such as displays of partisan political affiliation or advocacy for specific political candidates or parties.
3. Pertains to contentious ideologies, beliefs, or social issues. 
4. Reasonably likely to incite disruption, distraction, or division within the school community. 

In evaluating whether a display falls under these criteria, administrators will consider: 

1. Alignment with District-approved curriculum or programs. 
2. Impact on the educational environment. 
3. Feedback or concerns raised by students, staff, or families. 
4. Legal and policy guidance. 

Examples of accepted displays include, but are not limited to: 

1. The current flag of The United States of America;
2. The current Idaho state flag;
3. Official flags of any state in the United States;
4. Official flags of the United States military;
5. Official flags of Idaho Indian tribes;
6. Official flags of recognized foreign nations with which the United States is not engaged in overt military action;
7. Flags or banners used as part of a temporary unit of student instruction within the approved curriculum.
    1. Such flag or banner shall present factually accurate historic events;
8.  Displays that are used as a routine and consistent part of the class-approved curriculum in aid of learning and classroom expectations- i.e., periodic table, mathematical equations, the U.S., or Idaho Constitution, motivational posters; 
9.  Displays that denote a recognition of achievement by the District, School, or class and approved by the principal or designee; 
10. School or District sports tournament flags or banners, recognizing the participation of a school team;
11. Content promoting post-secondary educational opportunities from colleges, or universities or professional sports teams;
12. Student works/student artwork may be used as part of a temporary display, so long as such artwork is not otherwise in violation of District Policy;
13. Information from Student Clubs in displays approved by the building principal or designee, consistent with Policy 503.20;
14. Classroom activity photos, consistent with FERPA requirements; 
15. Personal family photographs of school employees;
16. Promotional materials from athletic and activities sponsors as approved by the Chief of Staff or designee.



## District Vehicles

Authorized employees of the District may use district-owned vehicles for the purpose of performing job related duties in an efficient and economical manner. These vehicles will generally be used for official business and work-related activities.

Unauthorized individuals are prohibited from using District vehicles at any time.

Only those persons whose names, copy of driver license, and signed vehicle use agreement are on file are authorized to use District vehicles.

District owned vehicles will not be offered for lease or loaned to any organization for any purpose.

All District vehicles will be identified with a District logo prominently displayed on the exterior of the vehicle.

A copy of this policy will be maintained in all District vehicles.

### Employee Obligations

It is the responsibility of each employee to visually inspect the vehicle prior to its use to ensure that the vehicle is in a safe operating condition.

Each driver is responsible for immediately reporting theft or damage of District vehicle to local police immediately. Additionally, all information relative to theft or damage must be provided to the Chief of Operations or designee within twenty-four (24) hours.

In the event of an accident involving a District owned vehicle, each driver is responsible for responding as follows:

- Negligence or liability should not be admitted.

- No settlement, regardless of how minor, should be offered.

- The name, address, and phone number of any injured person and witnesses should be obtained, if possible.

- Vehicle identification, insurance, District name, and policy numbers should be exchanged with the other driver.

- Take a photograph of the scene of accident, if possible.

- Call the police if injury to others is involved. It may be appropriate to call police even if there are no injuries.

- Complete the accident report form in the District vehicle.

- Turn all information relative to the accident over to the driver’s direct supervisor and the Chief of Operations within twenty-four (24) hours.

### Prohibition of Commuter Use

No employee shall routinely utilize a District owned vehicle for commuter use. In those instances where it is reasonable for an employee to take a District owned vehicle home overnight for the convenience of the District, approval must be obtained by the direct supervisor.

### Loss of Vehicle Privileges

Employees may have vehicle privileges suspended or revoked, and/or may be subject to disciplinary action, and/or may be liable to the District for costs resulting from any misuse of a District owned vehicle. Examples of such misuse include, but are not limited to: use of a District owned vehicle for other than official District business; driving a District vehicle without a valid Idaho driver’s license; unsafe driving practices or abuse of the vehicle; smoking or vaping in a District owned vehicle; failure to use proper fuel; improper fuel card usage; transporting unauthorized passengers on a regular basis such as non-District employees, family members, or friends; failure to report an accident or wrongfully leaving the scene of an accident.

### Definitions

- District owned vehicles: Those vehicles owned by or operated on behalf of the District and include, but are not limited to passenger vehicles, sport utility vehicles, pickup trucks, vans and other trucks. School buses are not included in the definition of District owned vehicles for purposes of this policy.

- Commuter use: An employer provided vehicle to travel from home to work and/or from work to home. Routinely driving a WASD owned vehicle which is parked at a WASD owned facility near an employee’s home, to the employee’s assigned work location is also defined as Commuter use for the purpose of taxation.

- Official business and work-related activities: These activities are meant to be narrowly construed. However, there may be times that official business and work-related activities may coincide with a personal purpose; for example, stopping for meals or minor personal errands in-route is permissible.


