---
policy: "0403.40"
kind: Regulation
title: 0403.40-AR-01 Military Preference
---

Veteran’s preference is intended to honor those citizens who have served their country in active duty by providing veterans a more favorable competitive position for government employment. Veteran’s preference requires public employers to provide additional consideration for eligible veterans, disabled veterans, Purple Heart recipients or the widow or widower of such individuals who have not remarried. This law does not guarantee the veteran a job.

Notice will be provided on all District applications and job announcements that Veteran’s Preference will be given to eligible veterans. An eligible veteran is entitled to preference over other applicants who are equally qualified on an initial appointment or hiring with an individual school district. “Eligible veterans are provided advantages in public employment in Idaho, including preference for initial employment and retention in the event of layoffs...in all public employment, excluding key employee positions...” (Idaho Code 65-501).

Applicants for the preference are responsible to provide verification and documentation of their eligibility by providing form DD214 from the Department of Defense.

A school district may refuse acceptance of an application for an otherwise qualified veteran if the veteran is deemed to be unqualified through his duties or actions. Examples of such actions include dismissal for cause from a public entity, a felony conviction, or conduct unbecoming a public employee. Such refusal must be supported by good cause and it can be appealed pursuant to Idaho Code Section 65-506.

A veteran who believes he or she is denied a right or benefit under these provisions may file an appeal with the Chief Human Resources Officer within thirty-five (35) calendar days of the alleged denial of preference.
