---
policy: "0403.80"
kind: AR
title: 0403.80-AR-05 Harrassment
---


## DEFINITION OF HARASSMENT

Harassment is a form of employment discrimination that amounts to unwelcome conduct based on the protected classifications identified in Policy 403.71.    Harassment becomes unlawful and inappropriate where:

- enduring the offensive conduct becomes a condition of continued employment , or
- the conduct is sever or pervasive enough to create a work environment that a reasonable person would consider intimidating, hostile, or abusive.

Petty slights, annoyances, and isolated incidents (unless extremely serious) will not rise to the level of illegal or inappropriate conduct.   To become unlawful the conduct must create a work environment that would be intimidating, hostile or offensive to reasonable people. 

Offensive conduct may include, but is not limited to, offensive jokes, slurs, epithets, or name calling, physical threats, intimidation, ridiucule or mockery, insults of put-downs, offensive objects or pictures, and interference with work performance.   

The victim of harassment does not have to be the person harassed, but can be anyone affected by the offensive conduct. 

Reporting, investigation and discipline of Harassment is addressed through the provisions detailed below. 

## DEFINITION OF BULLYING

Bullying is unwanted repeated aggressive behavior or actions seeking to harm, intimidate or coerce others with an apparent intent to dominate.   Bullying may include, but is not limited to physical (hitting, pushing, or attacks on property); verbal (name-calling, obscene ge﻿stures, malicious teasing or cyber bullying) or indirect attacks (anonymous hurtful notes or spreading of rumors).   Bullying often occurs without apparent provocation and in voles a real or perceived power imbalance.   

Bullying is not playful teasing between relatively equal individuals, nor negative conversation, commentary or constructive performance criticism by an administrator regarding an employee's performance. ﻿ 

It shall be a violation of this policy for any District employee to bully another employee or individual through any means, including technology, while on District property or at any District-sponsored activity, regardless of location.

Reporting, investigation and discipline of bullying is addressed through the provisions detailed below.
 

## REPORTING A COMPLAINT

Individuals who believe they are being harassed or bullied should firmly and promptly notify the offender that his or her behavior is unwelcome.   Individuals who believe they are subject to harassment or bullying as a result of sex or gender shall report and follow the provisions of the District's Title IX policy and complaint reporting process.

When a direct communication with the alleged harasser is not feasible or effective, the following steps should be followed when reporting a harassment complaint:

1. The individual may choose to report the complaint to his or her supervisor or building principal.
 
1. If the supervisor successfully resolves the complaint in an informal manner, a confidential report will be made to the Superintendent and/or designee about the complaint and resolution so that the District may determine if any pattern of harassment or bullying by any particular individual exists.
 
1. If the supervisor is unable to resolve the complaint, the complaint will be referred to the Superintendent or designee.
 
1. If the individual chooses not to report the complaint to his or her supervisor, the individual may report the incident through the reporting process located on the District's non-discrimination website page through the use of the District's Discrimination and Harassment Reporting Form.  If the complaint in any manner involves the Superintendent or designee, the individual should report the complaint to the Director of Accountability and Support or through the use of the District's Discrimination and Harassment Reporting Form which will be directed to the appropriate District Coordinator.

An employee, at any time, may file a discrimination or harassment claim with the Idaho Human Rights Commission and/or the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC).


## PROTECTION AGAINST RETALIATION

The District will not retaliate in any way against an individual who makes a report of harassment  or , bullying or sexting in good faith, nor will it permit any District employee to do so.  

Any person found to have retaliated against another individual for reporting an incident of harassment or, bullying or sexting, in good faith, may be subject to the same disciplinary action provided for harassment or bullying offenders.  

Individuals who are not complainants but who assist individuals who believe they have been subjected to harassment or , bullying or sexting, or who assist or participate in the a harassmentor bullying  investigation are also protected from retaliation.


## INVESTIGATION OF HARASSMENT OR ,BULLYING OR SEXTING COMPLAINT

1. Any allegation of harassment or bullying will be promptly investigated in a confidential manner to protect the privacy of all individuals involved.
 
1. Confidentiality will be maintained throughout the investigatory process to the extent practical and appropriate under the circumstances.
 
1. Complaints not resolved at the immediate supervisory/administrative level, as addressed above, will be investigated by the appropriate Coordinator or designee.
 
1. Upon completion of the investigation of a harassment or bullying complaint, the investigator will communicate his/her findings to the Superintendent or designee.  If the complaint in any manner involves the Superintendent, the investigator’s finding will be submitted directly to the Director of Accountability and Support Assistant Superintendent.
 
1. The District will keep and maintain a written record including, but not limited to, witness statements, investigative reports, and correspondence from the date any alleged event of harassment is reported to District personnel.  The information in the written record will also include the action taken by the District in response to each allegation.  The record will be kept in the District's administrative office and will not, at any time, be purged by District personnel.  The District will maintain such records for a period of at least  7 years.
 
1. If the findings of the investigation determine that harassment has occurred and that suspension, probation or dismissal is warranted, the board will be informed of the findings in executive session, and the record will be maintained in the personnel file.

During the period of investigation, the party against whom allegations of harassing or bullying conduct has been made against may be put on a period of administraitve leave and/or alternative assignment.   At the discretion of the Director of Accountability and Support, supportive measures may be put into place for the complaining party. 
 

## DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS

When brought to their attention, administrators and supervisors must take affirmative steps to stop harassment and bullying committed by any District employee or agent of the District present on school property.

When an investigation finds that an employee has engaged in harassment or bullying, disciplinary actions may include:

1. verbal or written warning
1. verbal or written reprimand/letter of direction/letter of correction
1. required training activities
1. recommendation for probation with subsequent board consideration
1. recommendation for termination with subsequent board consideration certificated) or termination (classified)
1. professional standards commission reporting.

If a situation arises where an investigation finds that an agent of the District has engaged in harassment or bullying against a District employee present on school property, the Director of Accountability and Support shall be notified to address the concerns with the agent and the agent's employer for appropriate corrective action up to and including possible discipline and/or termination of the contract with the agency at issue.