---
policy: "0403.75"
kind: Regulation
title: 0403.75-AR-01 Enforcement of Student Discipline
---

## STUDENT DISCIPLINE

All teachers are expected to assume responsibility for the discipline of their groups and to assist in the correction of other irregularities that may occur at school or at school sponsored activities. As members of the faculty, teachers are charged with the responsibility of informing students regarding building rules and procedures as well as general rules of conduct.

## CORPORAL PUNISHMENT

In accordance with Idaho Code 33-1224, corporal punishment is prohibited in West Ada Schools and affiliated activities.

## RESTRAINT AND SECLUSION

**Guidelines for the use and prohibitions for use of restraint and seclusion**
In accordance with Idaho Code 33-1224, restraint and seclusion shall not be used as forms of discipline or methods of classroom governance. Chemical restraint shall not be used for any purpose. Physical or mechanical restraint or seclusion may be deployed only in circumstances where a pupil's conduct has placed themselves, personnel, or any other individual in imminent danger of serious bodily harm.

**Restraint or Seclusion Documentation and Reporting Requirements Documentation**
Incidents of restraint and seclusion will be carefully documented after the incident with an Incident Report Form. Data must be collected, noting the following: antecedent, behavior, consequence, duration and location of seclusion (if applicable), type of restraint used (if applicable), date and time of incident, and staff who was working with the student and other observers.

**Reporting**
Following incidents of restraint and seclusion, the supervising teacher will ensure that the Incident Report form is completed as soon as possible after the restraint and/or seclusion period is over and sent to the parents within 24 hours. A copy of the report will be provided to the building administrator and special education supervisor at the same time. All use of restraint and seclusion must be tracked in the incident reporting section of the District's Student Information System.

**Review of Restraint or Seclusion Practices**
The District's restraint and seclusion practices and data will be reviewed annually.


## Definition:

On any school premises or at any school-sponsored activity, regardless of location: shall include, but not be limited to buildings, facilities, and grounds on the school campus, school buses, school parking areas; and the location of any school-sponsored activity. This includes instances in which the conduct occurs off the school premises but impacts a school related activity.

- **Corporal Punishment**: means knowingly and purposely inflicting physical pain on a pupil as a disciplinary measure.
- **Physical Escort**: means a temporary touching or holding of the hand, wrist, arm, shoulder, or back for the purpose of inducing a student who is acting out to walk to a safe location.
- **Restraint**: means physical, mechanical, or chemical forms of restriction, which are defined as follows:
- **Physical Restraint**: means a personal restriction that immobilizes or reduces the ability of a student to move their torso, arms, legs, or head freely. This term does not include a physical escort.
- **Mechanical Restraint**: means the use of any device or equipment to restrict a student's freedom of movement. This term does not include devices implemented by trained school personnel or utilized by a student that has been prescribed by an appropriate medical-related services professional and are used for the specific and approved purposes for which such devices were designed, such as:
    - Adaptive devices or mechanical supports, when used to achieve proper body position, balance, or alignment to allow greater freedom of mobility than would be possible without the use of such devices or mechanical supports;
    - Vehicle safety restraints, when used as intended during the transport of a student in a moving vehicle;
    - Restraints for medical immobilization; or
    - Orthopedically prescribed devices that permit a student to participate in activities without risk of harm.
- **Chemical Restraint**: means the use of drugs or medication to control behavior. This term does not include drugs or medication prescribed by and administered in accordance with the directions of a qualified health professional.
- **Seclusion**: means the involuntary confinement of a student alone in a room or area from which the student is physically prevented from leaving. This term does not include a timeout, which is a behavior management technique that is part of an approved program, which involves the monitored separation of the student in a nonlocked setting, and is implemented for the purpose of calming.

## DETENTION OF PUPILS

When students are kept after school to make up work missed by absence, or to clarify individual misunderstandings and difficulties, this should be done with the knowledge and consent of the parents. The right of parents to have their children home at regular times must be respected.

No teacher should detain bus students after school without permission of the principal and cooperation of the parents.

When students are assigned lunch detention or assigned to a designated location to complete missing work, they will be afforded the opportunity to eat lunch and will be supervised by personnel.


## TEACHER / PERSONNEL RESPONSIBILITIES

- Teachers and personnel are primarily responsible for the maintenance of proper student behavior both within and outside of the classroom setting during the school day. Every reasonable effort should be made by teachers/personnel to solve discipline problems before they are referred to the principal or supervisor.

- Teachers and principals are charged with the responsibility of establishing and communicating to students and parents' clear expectations for proper behavior and procedures/consequences to be followed for inappropriate behavior.

- A positive and pro-active approach to the maintenance of proper student conduct will be established. In dealing with students, staff will model respect, dignity and self-control.

- Beyond these general admonitions, when the behavior of any pupil is unacceptable the discipline procedure will be followed as established by the Chief Academic Officer or designee.

