---
policy: "0403.90"
kind: Regulation
title: 0403.90-AR-02 Reasonable Accommodation and the Interactive Process
---

Absent undue hardship, the District provides employment-related reasonable accommodations to personnel who are temporarily unable to perform all, or portions, of their regular work assignments or duties. This policy applies to qualified individuals with disabilities, within the meaning of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) that are unable to perform essential job functions. 

Personnel with a disability or who become temporarily unable to perform their essential job duties may be eligible for reasonable accommodation in accordance with the ADA.

If the disability or the need for reasonable accommodation is not obvious, the District may require personnel to provide medical documentation confirming the existence of the disability and the need for reasonable accommodation, along with the name and credentials of the health care provider. 

The interactive process is initiated when: 

- An applicant or personnel with a known physical or mental disability or medical condition requests reasonable accommodation(s) 

- The District becomes aware of the need for an accommodation through a third party (e.g. an employee’s colleague), or by observation of the employee’s work 

- The need for a possible accommodation because the personnel with a disability has exhausted workers’ compensation leave, Family and Medical Leave Act leave, or other leave rights, but the personnel and/or health care provider indicate that further accommodation is still necessary for recuperative leave or other accommodation 

The interactive process will attempt to identify and implement a reasonable accommodation that is consistent with the medical certification applicable to the applicant or personnel. Whether an accommodation is reasonable is a case-by-case analysis that takes into account several factors, including, but not limited to the personnel’s medical needs; the duration of the accommodation; and the employer’s legally permissible past and current practices. A range of potential accommodations may include, but are not limited to the following: 

- Transfer to a less strenuous or hazardous position for a temporary period of time. 

- Change in or restructuring of work duties within the scope of the personnel’s current position, such as modifying lifting requirements.

- Providing more frequent breaks.

- Providing seating.

- Time off for medical appointments.

- Other available jobs for which the employee qualifies outside the scope of their current position

- An altered schedule of work hours

After engaging in the interactive process, the Chief Human Resources Officer will review the information received, and determine: whether all available information has been reviewed; whether all potential accommodations that the applicant or personnel has suggested have been considered; whether additional discissions with the applicant or personnel would be helpful; whether the applicant or personnel’s preferences have been taken into account; if there is a reasonable accommodation that would enable the applicant or personnel to perform essential job functions without undue hardship on the District.  The applicant or personnel will be informed of the determination in writing. 