---
policy: "0403.80"
kind: AR
title: 0403.80-AR-03 Outside Employment
---

# Outside Employment

The District does not object to outside employment of any of its personnel as the District's intent is not to infringe on personal freedom or to discourage its employees from business ventures or entrepreneurial endeavors. However, during the workday, personnel are expected to devote their time and attention in the performance of their assigned duties and maintain their primary obligation to the District.  All District personnel should consult and follow the Code of Ethics of the Idaho Teaching Profession, Principle I - Commitment to the Student, Item 6 and Item 8 which states:

- Item 6. Idaho educators shall refrain from using professional relationships with students for personal advantage.

- Item 8. Idaho educators shall not tutor students assigned to one’s classes for remuneration, except when specifically approved by the Board.

In reference to administrators, counselors, school psychologists and such other personnel assigned to the building, the District interprets “assigned to one’s classes” to include all students enrolled in the personnel’s assigned school(s).

## DISTRICT EMPLOYEES CANNOT:

- Allow outside employment or a business venture to interfere with their performance, duties or responsibilities, infringe upon the workday or contracted year, or interfere with the effectiveness of District work.

- Utilize District facilities, equipment, or materials for personal monetary gain in any outside business, employment or venture.

- Direct subordinates or students to utilize specific products or services from which they will derive personal monetary gain.

- Engage in outside employment or activity which may involve the use of information and/or materials secured as the result of employment in the District.

## EXCEPTIONS TO THIS POLICY ARE AS FOLLOWS:

- Board approved programs such as summer athletic camps and summer academic camps.

- Private lessons, such as music lessons, tutoring or other enrichment activities that are clearly beyond the scope of the regular curriculum or school day.

If there is any doubt about whether any activity, business, employment or venture is in conflict with the official duties and responsibilities of the personnel, it is the responsibility of that employee to consult and obtain approval from the Chief Human Resources Officer.

