---
policy: “0403.40”
kind: AR
title: 0403.40-AR-02 Official Personnel Files and Information on Past Job Performance
---

## PERSONNEL RECORDS
The official personnel file will be maintained at the District Service Center. Complaints by students, parents, or patrons directed toward an employee shall not become a part of the employee’s personnel file unless such complaints have been first reported to the employee involved. The employee concerned shall be given an opportunity to attach written comments, explanations and/or rebuttals to any such complaints.

Personnel files are except for information contained in the file pertaining to public service or employment history, classification, pay grade and step, longevity, gross salary and salary history including bonuses, severance packages, other compensation or vouchered and unvouchered expenses for which reimbursement was paid, status, workplace and employing agency.

An employee has the right to access his or her own personnel file upon request and shall, in a timely manner, be provided copies of materials contained in the file. However, an employee is not entitled to access or obtain copies of letters of recommendation or material used to screen and test for employment.

## WORKING FILE
Each Principal may keep for one year a working file folder on each staff member assigned to his/her building. At the end of the academic year the working file will be purged.

## INFORMATION ON PAST JOB PERFORMANCE
West Ada School District adopts Idaho Code 33-1210 as policy.

