---
policy: "0403.50"
kind: Regulation
title: 0403.50-AR-01 Personnel Standard of Conduct
---

All personnel have a responsibility to make themselves familiar with, and abide by, the laws of the state as they affect their work, the policies of the Board and the regulations designed to implement them.

## STANDARD OF CONDUCT

By accepting employment with West Ada School District, all personnel have a responsibility to the District, the students, the patrons, and to fellow personnel to adhere to expected rules of behavior and conduct. The purpose of these rules is to be certain that personnel understand what conduct is appropriate, necessary and expected. When each person is aware that they can fully depend upon fellow workers to follow the rules of conduct, then our organization will be a better place for everyone to work.

Each person is expected to act in a kind, mature and responsible way at all times. Actions that include, but are not limited to: willful violation of any federal law, state law, or District policy, and/or any act of insubordination*, dishonesty, or other negligent conduct that may endanger the health or safety of another, may be cause for immediate dismissal.

Essential to the success of ongoing school operations and the instructional program are the following specific responsibilities, which shall be required of all personnel:

- Adherence to the Idaho Code of Ethics for Idaho Professional Educators.

- Reliable and prompt in attendance at work and following meal periods.

- Support and enforcement of District policies and regulations.

- Diligence in submitting required reports promptly at the time specified.

- Ability to engage in safe, honest, supportive and respectful interactions with students, adults and colleagues at all times.

- Ability to perform reasonable and appropriate assigned work. Failure to perform assigned work may be deemed insubordination, disobedience, or disrespect.

- Responsible for the safety and welfare of students including the need to ensure that students are supervised.

- Personnel must not give a child a ride in a vehicle unless they have the written permission of the child’s parent(s)/guardian(s) or in case of an emergency.

- Ability to obtain and maintain minimum qualifications for a position, including licenses or certificates.

- Ability to refrain from malicious gossip and/or spreading rumors, engaging in behavior designed to create discord and lack of harmony, or with willful disregard regarding the effect of such conduct.

- All personnel are responsible for the proper use of public funds.

- Personnel cannot leave campus with a student or students without permission from the administrative team and full knowledge of the parent(s)/guardian(s).

- Appropriate physical behavior includes contact that maintains physical boundaries at all times.

- Electronic communication between adults and students should be transparent and about school, club or program activities. Private messaging via social media and/or online gaming is prohibited. Emails and/or text messages related to instruction are subject to periodic monitoring. 

- Personnel must not misuse or tamper with District owned equipment and electronic devices, including but not limited to vehicles, laptops, monitors, printers, security cameras, and electronic keypads.

- Provide a healthy learning environment and appropriate role models for students by refraining from the use of e-cigarettes, vapes, tobacco products in school buildings or on school grounds, on school buses, or in the presence of students at any school activity sponsored by the district or in any facility of the District.

- Personnel cannot be under the influence of an intoxicating beverage or non-prescription drug or prescription drugs not authorized by the personnel's physician while at work.

- Personnel cannot engage in unauthorized outside activity or conduct which creates a conflict of interest with District work, which causes discredit to the District, negatively impacts the effective performance of District functions or is not compatible with good public service or interests of the District service.

- Keep confidential information that has been obtained in the course of professional service.

- Inform their supervisor in the event they receive knowledge that they are under investigation, have been charged with, arrested, or convicted of any felony.

- Teachers are to report the need for a substitute prior to the commencement of the work day as early as possible.  For planned absences, teachers are to report the need for a substitute with as much advanced notice as possible. No teacher is to call a substitute and pay for such services from personal funds.


*Insubordination results when personnel has received and understood a direct order, but refuses to obey. Either the personnel has made an explicit statement of refusal or simply did not complete the task.

## GROUNDS FOR DISCIPLINE
Good cause for discipline exists, not only when there has been an improper act or omission by personnel, but when any conduct by personnel brings discredit to the District. The type of disciplinary action shall depend on the seriousness of the offense. Cause for disciplinary action may include, but shall not be limited to, the following:

- Misstatements or omissions of fact in completion of the employment application or selection process.

- Furnishing knowingly false information in the course of the personnel’s duties and responsibilities.

- Inefficiency, incompetence, carelessness or negligence in the performance of duties.

- Violation of safety rules.

- Inattention to duty or failure to perform assigned duties properly.

- Tardiness or overstaying meal periods. 

- Being under the influence of an intoxicating beverage or non-prescription or prescription drug not authorized by the employee’s physician, while at work or on District property.

- Insubordination or disrespect to proper authority, refusal or failure to perform assigned work, to comply with a lawful order, or to accept a reasonable and proper assignment from an authorized supervisor. 

- Discourteous or offensive treatment of the public or other personnel.

- Falsifying any District document or record, including, but not limited to, time and attendance records;
Misuse of District property; improper or unauthorized use of District equipment or supplies; damage to or negligence in the care and handling of District property.

- Horseplay, fighting, assault and/or battery.

- Working overtime without authorization.

- Theft or sabotage of District property.

- Sleeping on the job.

- Seeking or accepting bribes or kickbacks.

- Engaging in outside employment which conflicts with a personnel’s responsibilities.

- Engaging in unauthorized outside activity or conduct which creates a conflict of interest with District work, which causes discredit to the District, negatively impacts the effective performance of District functions or is not compatible with good public service or interests of the District service.

- Intimidation or interference with the rights of any personnel.

- Any violation of the District’s Non-Discrimination Harassment Policy.

- Abusive, profane, or intemperate language or conduct toward or in the presence of others in the workplace or classroom.

- Carrying firearms or other dangerous weapons while on duty when not required by job duties.