---
policy: "0200.03"
kind: AR
---

# Term of Office - - Filling Vacancy Protocol

## Declaration of Board Vacancy
Upon the occurrence of a qualifying event creating a Board position vacancy pursuant to section 33-504, Idaho Code, at a regular or special meeting with proper agendized action item, the Board shall declare a vacancy on the Board for the zone position which has been vacated.

## Invitation to Community to Apply for Board Vacancy
Upon a vacancy declaration, the Board shall invite members of the zone to apply for the vacant position. Vacancy notification may also occur through the Ditrict's website, social media accounts or newsletters.

## Determination of Application Timeline
At the time of the declaration of the zone vacancy, the Board shall determine the timeline for which interested parties are to submit a completed application for the open zone vacancy. Such a deadline shall be no sooner than fourteen (14) business days from the date of the board vacancy and no longer than one (1) month from the date the vacancy is declared.

## Board of Trustee Vacancy Application
The applicant shall complete and submit the Board of Trustee Application. See LINK. A candidate's application must be fully completed and submitted to the Clerk of the Board no later than the Board-established deadline. If such application is not fully complete and/or if submitted after the deadline, the applicant will not be considered for the Trustee vacancy.

## Matrix Process - If more than 5 Completed Applications are Received by the District
If more than five (5) completed applications are timely received by the Board's Clerk, the Board, at a specially called meeting of the Board, shall review all of the timely completed applications received, at a specially called meeting of the Board.

During the Special Meeting, the Board shall select no more than five (5) finalists to move to the interview round of the selection process. This will be done through Board action and vote during open session. The Clerk of the Board shall be directed to notify the finailsts of their selection and to advise the finalists of the Special Board Meeting date for the interview process.

## Preparation of Finalist Interview Questions
Each trustee of the Board shall submit to the Board's Clerk no more than three (3) questions that they would like answered by the applicant finalists during the interview process. The Board's Clerk shall compile such questions into a single listing, providing a copy of such to the Chairman of the Board. The Chairman of the Board shall select the final questions to be asked of the applicant finalists during the interview process.

## Process for Finalist Applicant Interviews
At a Special Meeting of the Board, the applicant finalists shall participate in the interview process. All interviews and deliberations of the Board shall occur in open session of the Board meeting. For each question, a different applicant shall be the first to respond, in a round-robin process.

## Board Action in Determination of Candidate to Fill Vacancy
Through an action item vote in open session, the Board shall select from the finalists to assume the vacancy. If the Board chooses not to select one of the finalists from the interview process, the Board shall restart the application process outlined in this Administrative Regulation.

