---
policy: "1201.00"
kind: AR
---

# 1201 AR 03 Non Discrimination Accommodating Individuals with Disabilities Section 505 of the Rehabilitation Act and Title II of the Americans with-Disabilities

Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 as well as Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 prohibits discrimination on the basis of an individual’s disability. The Board is dedicated to fostering a working and learning environment that is free from such unlawful discrimination.

Pursuant to Section 504 and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, individuals with disabilities shall be provided an opportunity to participate in all school-sponsored services, programs, or activities on a basis equal to those without disabilities and will not be subject to illegal discrimination. Pursuant to the provisions of Section 504 and Title II, and consistent with District Policy 1201, Non-Discrimination, the District will provide accessible facilities and services. In general, Section 504 and Title II nondiscrimination standards are the same, and in general, actions that violate Section 504 also violate Title II. However, where Title II requirements exceed Section 504 requirements, school districts must also comply with the Title II requirements.

The District may provide auxiliary aids and services where necessary to afford individuals with disabilities an equal opportunity to participate in or enjoy the benefits of a service, program, or activity.

1. The District has designated Dr. Dave Reinhart, the District’s Director of Operations as the Title II ADA Coordinator and Section 504 Coordinator with regard to Facilities and Guest issues. In that that capacity, the Director of Operations is directed to:

    1. Oversee the District’s compliance efforts and recommend necessary modifications to the Board.

    2. Institute plans to make information regarding Section 504 and Title II’s protection available to any interested     party.

    3. Accept and work to resolve accessibility complaints under Section 504 and Title II.

Individuals should notify Dr. Reinhart with any inquiries seeking information about the existence and location of the District’s accessible services, activities, and facilities - CLICK HERE. It is requested that this notification should occur as soon as possible in advance of the school-sponsored function, program, or meeting.

Dr Reinhart shall also be responsible for responding to inquiries associated with requests for accessibility-related assistance and complaints about inaccessible services, activities, and facilities.

2. The District has designated Ramona Lee, the District’s Director of Special Services as the District’s Section 504 Compliance Officer. - CLICK HERE

The District’s 504 Compliance Officer is responsible for the coordination of the District’s compliance with Section 504 and Title II of the ADA with the District’s other assigned 504 and Title II Coordinators

3. If an employee needs accommodation associated with a disability to allow them to perform the essential functions of their position, the employee should contact Renee Senander, the District’s Chief Human Resources Officer, who has been designated as the District’s ADA Compliance Officer. Ms. Senander has also been designated as the District’s Section 504/ADA Title II Coordinator for Personnel Issues. CLICK HERE

The District’s Section 504/Ada Title II Coordinator for Personnel issues is responsible for the coordination of the District’s compliance with Section 504 and Title II of the ADA with regard to personnel matters. Such individual shall work in conjunction with the District’s Section 504 Compliance Officer with regard to coordinating the District’s compliance with Section 504 and Title II of the ADA along with the District’s other assigned 504 and Title II Coordinators.

4. For matters involving student program, services, activities, access, and educational accommodation please see District Policy 602.63 – Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. The District has designated Kylee Bendorf, Administrator of Student Support Services, as the District’s Section 504ADA Title II Coordinator for all student implementation and processes. CLICK HERE

The District’s Section 504/Title II Coordinator for student issues is responsible for the coordination of the District’s compliance with Section 504 and Title II of the ADA with regard to student matters. Such individual shall work in conjunction with the District’s Section 504 Compliance Officer with regard to coordinating the District’s compliance with Section 504 and Title II of the ADA along with the District’s other assigned 504 and Title II Coordinators.

Individuals may allege a violation of this policy or federal law by reporting such to the designated Compliance Officer or Coordinator as identified above or through the filing of a grievance or complaint through use of the District’s Discrimination and Harassment Reporting Form or by filing a complaint pursuant to District Policy 1201 Non- Discrimination Policy.
