---
policy: "0704.10"
kind: AR
title: 0704.10-AR-01 Trampolines, Rebounding Devices, Bounce Houses and Loadbearing Inflatables
---

Trampolines, mini-trampolines and rebounding devices (hereinafter "rebounding device") may only be used by an individual student under the provisions of IDEA or Section 504, solely for the limited use identified in the student's IEP or Section 504 Plan.

- A rebounding device may only be used in a therapy setting by a therapist and individual student, consistent with the individual student's IEP or Section 504 Plan.
    - The therapeutic reason for use of the rebounding device shall be identified in the student's IEP or Section 504 Plan.
    - The therapist shall keep a record of the use of a rebounding device by the individual qualified student.
- The maximum size of a rebounding device shall be for individual single-person use.
- A rebounding device shall not have a supporting handlebar and/or shall not have the handlebar attachment in place during a student's use, unless otherwise detailed in the student's IEP or Section 504 Plan.
- Use of a rebounding device shall be supervised at all times.
- A rebounding device shall not be used or accessible for any other individual's use and shall never be used by general education students. They shall be stored under lock and key at all times other than when they are in immediate use.
- A rebounding device shall be stored in a manner so that it is not accessible by any other individuals.
- Documentation shall be maintained regarding the number and location of all rebounding devices. A copy of this record shall be provided to the Superintendent or designee.
- If any damage exists to a rebounding device, it shall not be used.

Should any accident or injury occur to any student or other individual associated with the use of a rebounding device, a written report shall be submitted within twenty-four (24) hours to the building principal and District's Superintendent or designee.
