---
created: 2023-12-11
reviewed: 2023-12-11
title: 0200.06 Vacancies
code: "0200.06"
---

Vacancies on Boards of Trustees may be declared according to the criteria established in Idaho Code 33-504[^ic-33-504] and 33-501[^ic-33-501].  Upon declaration of vacancy, the Board of Trustees may appoint a successor per the following process:

- Upon declaration of vacancy, the Board shall notify the public of the application process to fill the vacated office through the normal channels used for District communications, including but not limited to the District website, email, and social media. Such notification will include a deadline no sooner than 14 days nor greater than 1 month from the date of notification.

- Applications for the vacated position must at a minimum include the qualifications for office per Idaho Code 33-501[^ic-33-501] and be submitted to the Board Clerk per the deadline outlined in the notification of vacancy. Applications which are incomplete at the deadline will not be considered; applicants are encouraged to submit early such that any problems may be corrected before the deadline.

- The current application form is available through the Board Clerk. The form of application may be adjusted by the Board of Trustees at any time prior to public notification of the appointment process.

- The Board Clerk will submit to the Board of Trustees a list of all properly qualified applicants no fewer than 3 days following the Application Deadline.

- If the number of qualified applicants is greater than 5, the Board Chair may, at his or her discretion, call a Special Meeting to be held no fewer than 14 days following the receipt of the list of qualified applicants. The purpose of said meeting shall be to reduce the number of Applicants to no greater than 5 Finalists based solely on the submitted applications, with all deliberations to be conducted during an open work session. If such a Special Meeting is not called, all applicants are to be deemed Finalists.

- Once Finalists are determined, the Board Chair shall call a Special Meeting within 14 days to conduct interviews.

- Each Trustee shall submit to the Board Clerk no more than 3 questions to be asked of Finalists during the interview. The Board Clerk shall compile all questions into a single list and provide a copy of such to the Board Chair. The Board Chair will select from this list the final questions to be asked of the Finalists.

- All interviews will be conducted in open session and all questions asked by the Board Chair in round-robin fashion.

- Following the interviews, the Board will convene in open work session to discuss the applicants.

- Following the work session, the Board will reconvene in open session and the Board Chair will accept any actions to fill the vacancy. Said motions will not require a second.

- If a Finalist receives a majority of the Trustee votes from this action, the vacancy is deemed filled. If no such Finalist receives a majority, or no such action is proposed, the position will remain vacant and follow procedures outlined in Idaho Code 33-504[^ic-33-504], which may include a restarting of the applicant process from newly qualified applications.

In the event the Board Chair resigns from the Board of Trustees or the role of Board Chair, the Board Vice Chair may act as Board Chair such time as the Board of Trustees elect a new Board Chair. Should the Board be unable to elect a new Board Chair within 60 days, the Board Vice-Chair will assume the role of Board Chair until the next Annual Meeting of the Board of Trustees.

[^ic-33-501]: [Idaho Code 33-501](https://legislature.idaho.gov/statutesrules/idstat/title33/t33ch5/sect33-501)
[^ic-33-504]: [Idaho Code 33-504](https://legislature.idaho.gov/statutesrules/idstat/title33/t33ch5/sect33-504/)
