---
created: 2023-11-13
reviewed: 2023-11-13
title: 0200.05 Board Grievance
code: "0200.05"
kind: Policy
---

The Board of Trustees expects its individual members to adhere to the provisions of the United States Constitution, Idaho State Constitution, Idaho State Law, State Board of Education Rules and Regulations, and Section 200 of the District Policy manual. In the event that any Patron of the District, including members of the Board itself, believes that a Trustee is not upholding his or her obligations, the following process shall be employed:

The grievant may make a formal complaint, in writing, and submit it to the Board Clerk. This complaint shall include:

- The name and address of the patron making the complaint.
- The name of the Trustee against whom the complaint is being addressed.
- The specific provision(s) alleged to have been violated.
- All evidence in support of the alleged violation. (Note that hearsay will not be considered evidence.)

The Clerk shall, within 3 business days, submit all claims which meet these criteria to the Board Chair or, if the Board Chair is the Trustee named in the complaint, to the Vice Chair. The Chair or Vice Chair will then call an Executive Session at the next Board Meeting to consider the complaint. The named Trustee in the complaint will not participate in the Executive Session itself except to answer questions related to the complaint.

Following Executive Session, the Chair or Vice Chair shall call for an Action of Censure against the named Trustee, which will require no second. The named Trustee will not participate in any such vote. If no such motion is proposed, or if the subsequent motion fails, the complaint is deemed resolved and absent no new substantive evidence will not be reconsidered. If the motion carries by majority vote, the named Trustee is deemed to be formally Censured by the Board of Trustees and reprimanded to adhere to the relevant provision.

