---
created: 2001-08-13
updated: 2024-08-26
reviewed: 2023-08-26
legal: Idaho Code 33-205,33-402,33-510,33-514,33-515,74-201,74-202,74-203,74-204
title: Meetings and Hearings
code: 0203.01
---



The Board recognizes the vital importance of civic engagement and will take all reasonable steps to ensure Board meetings are open, welcoming and conducive to patron involvement. The Board encourages patron attendance at all open meetings.

## ANNUAL MEETING
Per Idaho Code 33-506[^ic-33-506], the Annual Meeting shall be the first Regular Meeting in January. Notice of the Annual Meeting shall be published and posted not less than ten (10) days prior to the meeting. The first official action of the school board at its annual meeting is to reorganize and elect officers including a Chairman, a Vice Chairman, a Clerk[^ic-33-508] and a Treasurer[^ic-33-509]. The Chairman and Vice Chairman shall be elected from among the board members.

## REGULAR MEETINGS
Regular Meetings for the ensuing school year shall be determined and approved at the Annual Meeting. The board will hold its Regular Meetings within the school district at a place available to the public at a reasonable hour, the notice and agenda for which shall be posted no later than forty-eight (48) hours prior to each meeting. Should it be determined, during the course of the year, that the board believes it to be necessary to change the date or time of said meetings, the board shall modify the schedule by its action and publish and post any such changes within 48 hours.

## SPECIAL MEETINGS
Special Meetings may be called by the Chairman or by any two members of the board. A notice of time and place of Special Meetings shall be given to each board member, and written notice shall be conspicuously posted at the school district office and two previously designated public buildings not less than twenty-four (24) hours prior to the meeting. A Special meeting may be held with less than twenty-four (24) hours notice when an emergency exists posing the likelihood of injury or damage to persons or property or immediate financial loss.

## BOARD HEARING
From time to time the Board may engage in a hearing on a designated single subject matter. Such may include but are not limited to a budget hearing or a fee hearing, in which the public has the opportunity to present to the Board with regard to the subject matter of the hearing.

## EXECUTIVE (closed) SESSION
The Board may enter Executive Session (which is closed to the public) only for the purposes delineated in Idaho Code 74-206[^ic-74-206]. Any actions following from such Executive Session shall only be considered once the Board has reconvened in Open Session, with only the following two actions allowed to be determined during Executive Session:

- Employee determinations
- Student Expulsion/Enrollment determinations.

## OPEN SESSION
Aside from the aforementioned reasons which require Executive Session, all proceedings and determinations of the Board shall be conducted in Open Session, which shall be fully accessible to the public.


[^ic-33-506]: [Idaho Code 33-506](https://legislature.idaho.gov/statutesrules/idstat/title33/t33ch5/sect33-506/)
[^ic-33-508]: [Idaho Code 33-508](https://legislature.idaho.gov/statutesrules/idstat/title33/t33ch5/sect33-508/)
[^ic-33-509]: [Idaho Code 33-509](https://legislature.idaho.gov/statutesrules/idstat/title33/t33ch5/sect33-509/)
[^ic-74-206]: [Idaho Code 74-206](https://legislature.idaho.gov/statutesrules/idstat/title74/t74ch2/sect74-206/)
