---
created: 2017-10-04
updated: 2024-08-26
reviewed: 2023-08-26
title: Agenda - Regular Meetings
code: 0203.02
---

The Agenda for a Regular Meeting may generally include, but not be limited to:

- Call to Order
- Pledge of Allegiance
- Reports and Spotlights
- Patron Input*
- Consent Agenda
- Old Business
- New Business**
- Executive Session
- Adjournment

## PATRON INPUT*
Patrons may offer input (either written or verbal) to the Board to become part of the public record as follows:

- Patrons shall reside within the District.
- Patrons shall state their name and address for the record.
- Patrons shall only comment on an agendized item of business.
- Patrons shall present in a respectful manner.
- Patrons shall not refer to any specific student or employee or other such matter that should only be addressed in executive session.
- Patrons shall have at least two (2) minutes to present their public comment.

Any patron who does not meet or follow these standards will not be allowed to comment.

## PATRON REQUESTS**
Patrons may request an item to be added to the agenda as a new business item as follows:

- Patrons requesting a new business item must reside within the District.
- Such requests may only be related to a subject matter addressable in open session.
- Requests related to individual students, personnel matters, or other matters only addressable in executive session will not be considered.
- Requests must be submitted in written format to the Clerk of the Board and must detail the name and address of the requesting party and the subject matter sought to be included as new business. The stated subject matter shall include enough detail such that the Board is able to ascertain the subject matter sought to be included on the agenda.
- Requests will be agendized on either the assent of two board members or the chair.
- Agendized items will be scheduled at the earliest practical opportunity.

The Board is unable to respond to public inquiries in Open Session, but to the extent possible, will direct the appropriate administrator to communicate with the patron directly to answer any questions that may arise as a reult of the comments. Patrons who do not meet or follow these standards will not be allowed to comment in Open Session and will have their remarks stricken from the record.
