---
created: 2008-01-08
updated: 2023-10-23
reviewed: 2023-10-23
legal: Idaho Administrative Code
title: Mission Statement/Strategic Plan/Continuous Improvement Plan (CIP)
code: "0100.01"
---

The Board of Trustees hereby adopts the following as the Mission, Strategic Plan and Continuous Improvement Plan of the West Ada School District.

## Mission

**Preparing today's students for tomorrow's challenges.**

## Strategy

To accomplish this Mission, the District will work towards students graduating with the knowledge and experience to be both College and Career ready, with the following qualities:

*College and Career READY*

**R**esponsible individuals who make good choices; think before they act; help and take care of others; accept responsibility for their actions; and recognize, appreciate and use their given talents.

**E**ngaged learners who ask questions and seek answers; think critically; learn from their mistakes; and who continually develop and apply reasoning skills to life experiences.

**A**ccountable citizens who serve the community and respect others.

**D**edicated students who demonstrate a desire to learn through research, reasoning, questioning, and practical application.

**Y**our future leaders, professionals, workforce, stewards of change.

## Partners

In implementing this Strategy, the District will work together with the following partners:

1. Parents and Guardians - Education starts in the home, from parents and guardians, through siblings and extended family. We recognize the primary role that each household plays in supporting each student. As a District, we will work to maximize opportunities for each student to succeed.

1. Teachers and Staff - Education continues through the dedicated efforts of the professionals in our schools. We seek to make the entire learning environment - both inside and outside the classroom - productive through the talented individuals who help ensure our students have the knowledge and skills to be college and career ready.

1. Community Leaders - Education never ends - it only broadens to the wider community. We intend to bring the community closer to our students so that they benefit from the wisdom and experience of local employers, workers, leaders, legislators and anyone else from whom our students can benefit.

## Focus Areas

In working with these Partners, the District will concentrate on the following specific areas.

*The District's Focus Areas:*

1. Communication and Collaboration - The District will communicate proactively and honestly and foster conditions for effective collaboration between all partners.
1. Personalized Student Success - The District will enhance personalized attention through data-driven approaches to empower each and every student to succeed.
1. Safe and Well Equipped Schools - The District will provide safe, educational environments that maximize student learning, achievement and growth.
1. Teaching, Learning and Innovation - The District will emphasize excellence both in the classroom and beyond, in places ripe for inquiry and experimentation.

## Continuous Improvement Plan[^ic-33-320]

To measure progress on theses objectives, the District will annually develop a Continuous Improvement Plan.

The District's Administration will annually develop a Continuous Improvement Plan according to, but not limited to, provisions set forth in the Idaho Code and Idaho State Board of Education Rules (Idaho Administrative Procedures
Act).

[^ic-33-320]: [Idaho Code 33-320](https://legislature.idaho.gov/statutesrules/idstat/title33/t33ch3/sect33-320/)
