---
policy: "0501.90"
kind: AR
---

**Procedures to Request an In-District Transfer**

The following procedures shall be followed regarding a request by a parent/guardian for an In-District transfer to
allow a student to attend a school within the West Ada School District outside the student’s attendance area:


Parent(s)/guardian(s) shall complete the online In-District Transfer application (Enrollment | West Ada School
District), which must be submitted to the receiving school by February 1st for enrollment during the
subsequent school year.
Per Idaho Code, Out-of-District applications shall be accepted at any time throughout the year.


Applications received after February 1st for the subsequent year will be considered based on capacity as
outlined in the Administrative Regulation.


Incomplete applications will be cancelled and not considered.


The receiving school administration shall review the requested In-District transfer, considering the ratios
identified herein.


If the receiving school approves the In-District transfer, an approval letter will be sent by the receiving campus
to the parent(s)/guardian(s) within sixty (60) days of the application. The sending campus and the
Superintendent or designee will be copied on the approval letter.
Upon the parent’s/guardian's receipt of this communication, the parent/guardian has a period of one (1)
calendar week to notify the receiving school that they are accepting or rejecting the offer of an In-
District Transfer.


If the receiving school does not receive notice within one (1) calendar week, the receiving school shall
assume the parent/guardian is not accepting the offer of the In-District transfer and the student will
remain at their current placement rather than the school sought in the In-District Transfer.


If the receiving school denies the In-District transfer request, a denial letter explaining the reason for denial
will be sent to the parent/guardian within sixty (60) days of the application. The sending campus and
Superintendent or designee will be copied on the denial letter.

**Transfer Considerations by District**

In reviewing an In-District transfer request, space available considerations must recognize and allow for growth
within the school’s boundary attendance area during the summer months and school year.

For In-District transfer considerations, the following student/teacher ratios are applicable:


Kindergarten, Grades 1 -2 20


Grade 3 21


Grade 4-5 27

At the secondary level, to allow for growth in the school’s boundary attendance area, core classroom size per grade
level is the standard used to determine maximum enrollment for the purpose of transfer guidelines:


Grades 6-12 27


Grades 6-8 Alternative 16


Grades 9-12 Alternative 16

Core is defined as English Language Arts (ELA), Math, Science, and Social Studies.

Regarding students who qualify for services under IDEA or other specialized programs, the following guidelines shall
be applicable:


Special Education Resource Rooms Case load per teacher of 20 students


BoardPolicyManual
WestAdaSchoolDistrict



Special Education Extended Resource Rooms No greater than 10 students per teacher


Specialized Extended Resource Rooms No greater than 5 students per room


Special Education Programs No greater than 12 students per full-time
Special Education Teacher/FTE


Blended Programs No greater than 12 students per room


18-21 Transition Programs No greater than 6 per room


SLP Services No greater than a caseload of 40 per SLP full-time


D/ HH Programs Not available for open enrollment. Placement is
addressed only by interlocal contract with Districts.


Multilingual Learners (ML) No greater than 20 per full-time ML Teacher/FTE

**Waiting List**

A wait list shall be generated by each school after February 1st for the subsequent school year, with all students who
have sought enrollment but were denied due to capacity limitations. Upon parental/guardian request, the student
shall be placed on a wait list for the school/grade/program.

In creating the waiting list, requests for an In-District transfer will be considered on a first-come, first-served basis
and will be accepted only on a space available according to the school/grade/program capacities.

The wait list shall expire at the end of the school year and will not be given consideration for any opening the
subsequent school year. Any student on the wait list who seeks to enroll in the subsequent year in the
school/grade/program shall submit the appropriate documentation in a new application.

Should a circumstance arise that an opening exists which the student could fill, the school shall be in contact with the
family regarding the opening as to whether the family wishes to accept or decline the seat for their student.


Such discussion may include consideration as to whether a mid-term transfer is in the best educational
interest of the student and the potential that the placement will or will not be available for the next
school year. If a student declines the open placement from the wait list, they shall be removed from the
wait list.

**Denial for In-District Transfer**

Reasons for denial of an In-District transfer request, include, but are not limited to:


The receiving school does not have space available pursuant to the above referenced student to teacher ratios
and/or program capacity limitations.


The student has a documented history of chronic absenteeism.


The student has a documented history of significant disciplinary issues defined as two (2) or more documented
suspendable incidents within a year of the date of the student's application.

**Revocation for In-District Transfer**

A previously approved In-District Transfer may be revoked under the following circumstances.


The school in which the student is enrolled exceeds the maximum enrollment of resident student or program
due to growth.


The student is chronically absent.


The student commits repeated, serious disciplinary infractions:
Defined as two (2) or more documented suspendable incidents within the year of the approved In-
District transfer.


The student commits disciplinary infractions that result in expulsion.

Revocation due to student or program capacity or disciplinary infractions, short of expulsion will occur prior to the


start of school, at the end of semester or end of the year break. Notice of such revocation may occur in advance of
the semester or year-end break to allow the family to make appropriate arrangements.

However, pursuant to Idaho Code 33-1402, the receiving school may not revoke a transfer approval to a school after
two (2) consecutive years of attendance beginning with the 2023-24 school year. If a transfer approval is revoked
under this subsection, the receiving school must offer the student information about other schools within the District
that are below maximum enrollment.

**Appeal Process for Denial/Revocation**


If the In-District transfer is denied or revoked after being approved, the parent(s)/guardian(s) may appeal the
decision to the Director of Accountability and Support within five (5) working days of receiving the written
notice from the school by completing the “Open Enrollment Appeals” form. (Enrollment | West Ada School
District)
If the denied application reason was due to “over capacity” for the subsequent school year, appeals may
be submitted but will not be reviewed until June 1st due to the "over capacity" transfer request wait list.


For the subsequent school year, appeals may be submitted based on the other three (3) denial reasons
and will be reviewed within thirty (30) days.


The Director of Accountability and Support may choose to overturn the denial/revocation or uphold the
decision.


If the Director of Accountability and Support upholds the denial/revocation decision, the parents/guardians
may appeal the decision to the Superintendent within five (5) working days of receipt of written notice from
the Director of Accountability and Support.


If the Superintendent upholds the denial/revocation decision, the parent(s)/guardian(s) may request an
administrative review by the Board of Trustees in writing to the Board's Clerk within five (5) working days of
receiving the written notice.
The Board of Trustees shall consider the appeal at its next regularly scheduled meeting.


The Board of Trustees must issue its decision in writing.


Parent(s)/guardian(s) may appeal the Board of Trustees' decision of denial/revocation to the State Board of
Education as outlined in Idaho Code 33-1410.

**Transfer for Victim of Violent Offense on School Grounds**

Notwithstanding any other provision associated with In-District transfers, any student who is the victim of
a documented violent criminal offense on school grounds shall be permitted to transfer to another school within the
District. If a student has been subject to such an event, the request for transfer and submission of the transfer
request documentation shall be directed to the Superintendent or designee as opposed to submission at the school
level.

**Transfer from Persistently Dangerous Schools (20 USC 7912)**

If any school within the District is found to be persistently dangerous in accordance with federal law, students
attending the school shall be permitted to transfer to another traditional or charter school within the District which is
not persistently dangerous. The transfer may be either permanent or temporary and lasts until the school of origin is
no longer designated as persistently dangerous. Parent(s)/guardian(s) of students shall be notified that the school has
been designated as persistently dangerous within ten (10) days of being so designated. Within twenty (20) days of
receiving such notification, students may be transferred to another school within the District.
