---
policy: "0501.01"
kind: Regulation
title: 0501.01-AR-01 Academic Integrity
---
This Administrative Regulation aims to foster and safeguard an environment of trust, fairness, and respect. Academic integrity mandates that students produce their own work. If questioned, each student should be able to explain all work products to demonstrate proficiency of the standard.

**Demonstrating and Supporting Academic Integrity**

**Administrators and Counselors Will:**

- Ensure that all faculty, students, and parents are informed of and have access to the Academic Integrity Policy and Administrative Regulation.
- Contact a parent or legal guardian in situations where a student has violated the provisions of the Academic
- Integrity Policy and Academic Integrity Administrative Regulation.
- Cultivate a school-wide environment that promotes honesty and integrity.
- Maintain records of reported violations.
- Enforce appropriate disciplinary actions for policy violations.
- Conduct investigations into alleged violations, recognizing a student's right to due process.

**Teachers Will:**

- Provide explicit requirements and directions for assignments and technology.
- Create positive conditions for testing.
- Specify whether work is to be cooperative or individual.
- Teach and review proper documentation methods.
- Contact administration with concerns regarding any and all student concerns.

**Students Will:**

- Complete all work individually unless explicitly permitted otherwise by the teacher and use technology appropriately.
- Avoid situations that may lead to academic dishonesty.
- Safeguard completed or ongoing work from unauthorized use.
- Cite sources - Students should not quote, paraphrase, or pass off information as their own from any source, including generative AI, without adequately crediting each source of information.
- Ensure all test/quiz answers reflect their own knowledge. Refrain from discussing tested materials with other students until directed to do so.
- Be prepared to explain their work to demonstrate understanding.
- Seek clarification from the teacher when unsure about an assignment.
- Adhere to the rules and requirements outlined for concurrent credit, dual credit or IB courses.

**Parents/Legal Guardians and Other Adults Supporting Students are Encouraged to:**

- Support the student's effort to complete work themselves.
- Be aware of a student's need for supplies and a quiet time and place to work.
- Know about the Academic Integrity Policy and Administrative Regulation and the student's consequences of not abiding by it and providing a positive example for adhering to and supporting the enforcement of the policy.
- Reduce the pressure for "success at any cost", and give support, even when their best effort does not earn an "A".

**Due Process**
Before applying any disciplinary action related to a suspected violation of this Administrative Regulation, the school administration will afford the student the chance to respond to the accusation. This includes, but is not restricted to, allowing the student to explain the alleged behavior and contest any proposed disciplinary measures. Adjudication of the case will be conducted by building administration.

**Disciplinary Consequences**
The following are common breaches of academic integrity, with disciplinary guidelines provided. This list is not exhaustive and may be subject to deviation based on specific circumstances. Educators and administrators may apply consequences for infractions not listed here but violating the integrity expectations outlined. Consequences for Tier 1 and Tier 2 violations of the Academic Integrity Policy and Administrative Regulation are cumulative for the school year in which the first incident occurs, plus the entire following school year. Consequences for Tier 3 events accumulate throughout the student's educational career in the District.

##### TIER 1 EVENTS:
- Copying work assigned to be done independently or allowing someone to copy your own or another's work.
- Copying or closely paraphrasing sentences, phrases, or passages from an uncited source for a paper, or for research (plagiarism).
- Looking at or allowing someone else to look at your own or another's paper on a quiz.
- Using "cheat" notes on a quiz.
- Talking or communicating with another student by any means during a quiz.
- Giving or receiving quiz information to or from students in other periods of the same teacher or same course.

**First Incident**: 1-2 days detention or equivalent; campus assignment.
**Second Incident**: 1 day in-school suspension.
**Third Incident**: 1-3 days in-school or home suspension.

##### TIER 2 EVENTS:

- Looking at or allowing someone else to look at your own or another's paper on a test.
- Using "cheat" notes on a test.
- Talking or communicating with another student by any means during a test.
- Giving or receiving test information to or from students in other periods of the same teacher or the same course.
- Submitting papers taken from the internet, other publications, or other students or resubmitting prior work as original (plagiarism).
- Extensive copying or closely paraphrasing sentences, phrases, or passages from an undocumented source for a major paper or project (plagiarism).
- Submitting individual projects that are not wholly your own work.
- Forgery of signatures relating to academic documentation.
- Fabricating or altering laboratory data.
- Submitting translations from Internet translation programs in a language class (plagiarism).

**First Incident**: 1-3 days of in-school or home suspension.
**Second Incident**: 3-5 days of in-school or home suspension, with possible referral for disciplinary/expulsion hearing.
**Third Incident**: 5-+ days of in-school or home suspension, referral for disciplinary/expulsion hearing.

##### TIER 3 EVENTS:

- Multiple Tier 1 and/or Tier 2 events
- Tampering with official records including altering grades in a grade book or on a computer database.
- Stealing, accessing or distributing exams or answer keys to an exam by any means.
- Cheating on a high stakes test such as Advanced Placement (AP), Preliminary Aptitude Scholastic Test (PSAT), final course exam, etc.

**First Incident**: 1-5 days of in-school or home suspension, with possible referral for a disciplinary/expulsion hearing.
**Second Incident**: 3-5+ days of in-school or home suspension, with referral for a disciplinary/expulsion hearing.
