---
policy: "0501.90"
kind: Regulation
title: 0501.90-AR-10 Idaho Fine Arts General Application and Audition Process
---

### Idaho Fine Arts General Application and Audition Process

Idaho Fine Arts Academy is a School of Choice with application and audition requirements.

There are two timeframes to apply and audition. On-time applications for the subsequent school year are due the month of November followed by auditions in January. If a parent/guardian misses the on-time application period, January through October is the late application and audition timeframe.

On-time applications submitted in November qualify for the auditions that take place in January.

1. Complete the online School of Choice Application for Idaho Fine Arts Academy (IFAA) in November. (on-time applications)
2. When the application closes, parents/ guardians will be emailed a Bookings link to schedule their student's audition time. A student may choose up to two Art Major Auditions from the following majors:
    1. 6th grade – 8th grade: Dance, Classical Music, Contemporary Music, Theatre, Visual Art, and Vocal Music
    2. 9th grade – 12th grade: Dance, Classical Music, Contemporary Music, Film, Theatre, Visual Art, and Vocal Music
3. The School of Choice Auditions for IFAA will be scheduled in January.
4. Ranking individual student auditions is based on approved rubrics scored by IFAA staff and professional artists in the community.
5. Annual seat availability by major and at grade level is determined from the Intent to Continue form completed by currently enrolled students.
    1. Students not meeting the minimum requirement 60% threshold on the audition rubric are not placed on the wait list and are encouraged to audition again.
6. Each completed ON-TIME applicant will receive one of the following letters via email after the audition process:
    1. Acceptance Letter
    2. Wait List Letter
    3. Minimum Requirement Letter
7. Students selected in the audition process will accept or decline their seat in the timeframe stated in the acceptance letter.
    1. If the applicant accepts, the parent/guardian will proceed to enroll the student at Idaho Fine Arts Academy. This school has now become the student’s “primary school”.
    2. If the applicant declines the offer, the parent/guardian will need to enroll the student at the primary attendance boundary school or other open enrollment option.
    3. If no response is recorded, that seat will no longer be saved for the student.
    4. Out-of-District or new-to-West Ada School District students entering 9th through 12th grade are required to submit a transcript. This is uploaded with the student's application. Students must be current with West Ada graduation requirement to be placed at IFAA. Credit recovery does not fit IFAA's schedule due to IFAA's unique art focus. Students who are behind with high school graduation credits do not qualify for admission.
    5. IFAA selects students using a specific set of criteria in the discipline of audition/study. Given the audition requirements, siblings, and students of West Ada faculty and staff do not receive priority placement.
8. Prior to offering an Out-of-District student who is receiving services through IDEA, the administration will verify the special program does not exceed capacity. Refer to AR(3) and AR(4).
9. Late Applications and Placement
    1. The late application timeframe is January through October.
    2. Online late applications are placed on the wait list by grade, major, and ranking determined by the rubric score.
    3. Students will be called from the late wait list for an audition as seats become available.
    4. If the parent/guardian accepts a placement offer, the school will assist with the enrollment process.
