---
policy: "0501.90"
kind: Regulation
title: 0501.90-AR-08 Elementary Schools of Choice General Application Process
---

**Elementary Schools of Choice General Application Process**

There are two timeframes to apply. On-time applications for the lottery for the subsequent year are due in the month of November. If a parent/guardian missed the on-time application period, January through October is the late application timeframe.

Only the applications submitted in November can qualify for the lottery draw in December.

1. Complete the online Elementary School of Choice Lottery Application in November. (on-time applications)
    1. A student may apply for multiple Schools of Choice within the District.
2. The Elementary School of Choice Lottery will be scheduled for the second week of December.
3. If through the lottery process, a student is selected to attend more than one School of Choice, the family shall have a period of three (3) school-days to notify the District as to which School of Choice the student will be attending.
    1. This timeline applies regardless of the general timeline provided for all students to accept placement.
    2. Once that selection is made by the family, the student shall be removed from the attendance list for the other Schools of Choice for which the student had been drawn.
4. Each completed ON-TIME applicant will receive one of the following letters via email within the week following the lottery selection:
    1. Acceptance Letter
    2. Wait List Letter
5. Students who were selected in the lottery will need to accept or decline their seat in the timeframe stated in the Acceptance Letter.
    1. If the applicant accepts, the parent/guardian will proceed to enroll their student at the Elementary School of Choice submitting valid proof of residency within thirty (30) days. (Refer to AR(1) for proof of residency options).
        1. Proof of residency will be confirmed and checked against the address provided at the time of application.
        2. The Elementary School of Choice has now become the student’s “primary school”.
    2. If the applicant declines the offer, the parent/guardian will need to enroll their student at their primary attendance boundary school or other open enrollment options.
    3. If no response is recorded, that seat will no longer be saved for the student.
6. Prior to offering a seat to an Out-of-District student who is serviced through IDEA, the administration will verify the special program does not exceed capacity. Refer to AR(3) and AR(4).
7. Late Applications
    1. The late application timeframe is January through October.
    2. These are applications submitted to be placed on the school/grade late wait list.
    3. The school will contact the parent/guardian of the applicant if their application is next in line and/or qualifies for a placement offer.
    4. If the parent/guardian accepts a placement offer, the school will assist with the enrollment process.
