~0501.90-AR(9): Student Enrollment and Enrollment Options -~
 0501.90-AR(9): Student Enrollment and Enrollment Options -
Renaissance High School (RHS)Renaissance High School (RHS)


Status:Status: ADOPTED


Original Adopted Date:Original Adopted Date: 11/06/2023 | Last Revised Date:| Last Revised Date: 10/14/2024 | Last Reviewed Date:| Last Reviewed Date: 10/14/2024

### Renaissance High School General Application Process

Renaissance High School is a School of Choice with academic requirements for admission in addition to following the
lottery process.

There are two-time frames to apply. On-time applications for the lottery for the subsequent school year are due in
the month of November. If a parent/guardian missed the on-time application period, January through October is the
late application time frame.

Only the applications submitted in November can qualify for the lottery draw in December.


1. Complete the online School of Choice Lottery Application for Renaissance High School (RHS) in November.
(on-time applications)


2. The School of Choice Lottery for RHS will be scheduled for the second week in December.


3. Each completed ON-TIME applicant will receive one of the following letters via email within the week
following the lottery selection:
a. Acceptance Letter


b. Wait List Letter


4. Students who were selected in the lottery will need to accept or decline their seat in the time frame stated in
the Acceptance Letter.
a. If the applicant accepts, the parent/guardian will proceed to enroll their student at Renaissance High
School. This school has now become the student’s “primary school”.


b. If the applicant declines the offer, the parent/guardian will need to enroll their student at their primary
attendance boundary school or other open enrollment options.


c. If no response is recorded, that seat will no longer be saved for the student.


5. Student acceptance of their lottery seat in December is contingent upon Spring ISAT scores.


a. Students will need to score Proficient (Level 3) or Advanced (Level 4) in both 8th grade ISAT ELA (English
Language Arts) and Math held in the spring.


b. Student scores will be verified at the end of April or May (when official ISAT scores have been released).


c. If the student does not meet "Proficiency" in both areas, parents/guardians will be notified that their
student’s admission to Renaissance High School has been rescinded due to ISAT score requirements.
1. The Director of Special Education or Administrator of ML will be notified of students who have not
met the proficiency criteria.


2. A student who scored a 2 may be offered the opportunity to take the SICA interim assessment or
submit a supplemental application for reconsideration by school administration to the end of the
first full week in June.
i. The supplemental application can be found on the school’s website.


ii. The supplemental application will be reviewed by the school administration and a
recommendation made to the Superintendent or designee.


3. If the student scores a Proficiency level of 3, the student will retain his or her seat at Renaissance
High School.


d. Out-of-District or new to the West Ada School District students will be required to submit an equitable
assessment to the Idaho Standard Achievement Test (ISAT).
1. If a student is offered and will be accepting a seat to attend Renaissance, contact the main office
for more information.


e. Students must be current with the West Ada graduation requirement to be placed at RHS. Credit
recovery does not fit RHS's schedule due to RHS's accelerated courses. Students who are behind with


BoardPolicyManual
WestAdaSchoolDistrict



high school graduation credits do not qualify for admission.


6. Prior to offering a seat to an Out-of-District student who is serviced through IDEA, the administration will
verify the special program does not exceed capacity. Refer to AR(3) and AR(4).


7. Late Applications


a. The late application time frame is January through October.


b. These are applications submitted to be placed on the school/grade late wait list.


c. The school will contact the parent/guardian of the applicant if their application is next in line and/or
qualifies for a placement offer.


d. If the parent/guardian accepts a placement offer, the school will assist with the enrollment process.

Date Adopted: 11/06/2023
Date Revised: 09/25/2024; 10/14/2024


