~0501.90-AR(6): Student Enrollment and Enrollment Options -~
 0501.90-AR(6): Student Enrollment and Enrollment Options -
Home SchoolHome School
```
```
Status:Status: ADOPTED
```
```
Original Adopted Date:Original Adopted Date: 01/17/2024 | Last Revised Date:| Last Revised Date: 10/14/2024 | Last Reviewed Date:| Last Reviewed Date: 10/14/2024
```
Building Administrators and the Superintendent or designee will administer the attendance boundaries policies and
procedures. The West Ada School District will allow for the enrollment of Home School students as provided for in
section 33-203, Idaho Code.

A student who resides within the boundaries of the District but is otherwise not enrolled in another Idaho Public
School District, charter school or private school can dually enroll with the District as a home school student.

Home School is defined as a (K-12) student who is experiencing most of their education through the home
environment under the direction of parents/guardians and enrolls at their boundary school in a course or courses if
seats are available. Home school students are not enrolled in another educational; public, private, or parochial entity.

Accordingly, when considering an application for a Home School Student, it is important for building
administration to understand the student’s other educational activities.

**Home School Enrollment Guidelines**

```
a. All home school students shall be subject to all the same eligibility standards as regular full-time students at
their boundary school.
```
```
b. For all home school students participating in nonacademic public-school activities, including Idaho High School
Activities Association (IHSAA), for which public school students must demonstrate academic proficiency or
eligibility, the home school student shall demonstrate composite grade-level academic proficiency on any State
Board of Education recognized achievement test, portfolio, or other mechanism as provided for in State Board
of education rules. The home school student is only eligible to participate in IHSAA activities at their boundary
school.
1. Additionally, a student shall be eligible if he/she achieves a minimum composite score, core, or survey
test score within the average or higher than average range as established by the test service utilized on
any nationally normed test. Demonstrated proficiency shall be used to determine eligibility for the
current and following school years.
```
```
c. The District shall provide nonpublic students who wish to participate in home school activities with the
opportunity to take state tests or other standardized tests given to all regularly enrolled public school students.
```
```
d. Home school students may not enroll solely for special education services. The home school statute does not
establish an entitlement to FAPE (Free Appropriate Public Education) for a home school student with a
disability. This means that there is no individual right for a home school student to receive some or all special
education services that the student would receive if enrolled in public school. A home school student who is
enrolled for partial participation at the District’s schools may receive accommodations in the courses for which
they are enrolled. Such will be addressed on a case-by-case basis on a plan developed by the District.
1. Reference the SDE Q&A on Home Programs and IDEA Q & A for further guidance: Home Programs and
IDEA Q&A (idaho.gov)
```
**Procedures to Request Home School Enrollment**

```
a. A parent/legal guardian must complete the Home School Application seeking to attend a school in the District
each semester. The Home School Application may be found on the District’s Enrollment website page.
(Enrollment | West Ada School District select the "Other Related Forms option")
```
```
b. The building administrator will review the availability of seats via the course or program the student has
requested to enroll in and either approve or deny the Home school Student enrollment application.
```
```
c. A student requesting Home School Student status even if only participating for interscholastic or nonacademic
activity will register through the District's approved athletic and activities program, currently "Aktivate."
```
```
d. High School Only :
1. The school will provide the PowerSchool Intent to Home School letter for parents to sign to be applied
to the building graduation-rate reporting. Such documentation is necessary for the State and District to
track graduation statistics required of all Idaho Public School Districts. This form needs to be completed
one time at the high school where the student is enrolled.
```
```
BoardPolicyManual
WestAdaSchoolDistrict
```

**Considerations of District in Processing Home School Enrollment Requests**

```
a. Home school requests are not applicable to approved In-District and Out-of-District transfers.
```
```
b. Home school requests are not applicable to Schools of Choice.
```
```
c. Home school requests are subject to available capacity at the requested school.
```
```
d. If enrollment in a specific class or program reaches the maximum for the program, priority for enrollment shall
be given to a student who is enrolled full-time in the West Ada School District.
```
```
e. Regular full-time enrolled students will be given priority for enrollment at the start of each semester.
```
```
f. If a class or program is full and includes a home-schooled student when a regular full-time student transfers
into the school during the semester, the District’s normal enrollment procedures shall remain the same and the
home-school student may not be unenrolled in the middle of the semester to provide space for the full-time
student during the current semester.
1. A home-schooled student may be revoked at the end of semester if the class or program does not have
space available as referenced to AR(2a) for student to teacher ratios and/or program capacity limitations.
```
If a student has been granted home school student status, the student must be coded in the District's student
management system designating that the student is home-schooled.

Date Adopted: 01/17/2024
Date Revised: 02/05/2024; 09/25/2024; 10/14/2024


