---
policy: "0501.90"
kind: AR
---

**Transfer Guidelines for Open Enrollment**

The District acknowledges that there are times that a student(s) may need or desire to attend a school other than the
school in which they are zoned to attend. Building Administrators and the Superintendent or designee will
administer the attendance boundaries policies and procedures referenced in Policy 904.00: School Attendance
Zones.

The following guidelines shall be followed regarding a request by a parent/guardian for an In-District and Out-of-
District transfer to allow a student to attend a West Ada School outside the student’s attendance area.

**General Guidelines**


1. Open Enrollment is defined for grades K-12 for In-District and Out-of-District transfer applications.
Idaho’s Open Enrollment statutory provisions do not apply to preschool.


2. Traditionally, students are required to attend the school in the attendance area and within the District
boundaries of the residence of their parent(s)/guardian(s). The District will annually consider Open Enrollment
applications allowing for students who reside outside of the District’s boundaries to attend a school within the
District's boundaries.
Nonresident and/or Out-of-District students who are placed by court order under the provision of the
Idaho Youth Rehabilitation Act or the Child Protective Act, and reside in licensed homes, agencies and
institutions shall be received and admitted by the District in which the facility is located.


Homeless children and youth, as defined by the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act shall refer to
Policy 501.60 Homeless Students.


3. Dual enrollment or home school requests are not applicable to be approved for In-District or Out-of-District
transfers.


4. An approved In-District or Out-of-District transfer does not guarantee specific classes for any student granted
Open Enrollment.


5. Simply because one student in a family is awarded enrollment does not mean that any other student within the
family is guaranteed enrollment. Each enrollment request is reviewed on an individual basis, addressing the
enrollment procedures and considerations, including classroom and program capacity.


6. Being granted an In-District or Out-of-District transfer in any given year does not guarantee nor indicate that it
will be granted in any subsequent year.


7. Students moving from an elementary to a middle school or from a middle school to a high school must apply
for Open Enrollment (In-District or Out-of-District) at the new school and are not guaranteed acceptance at
the new school, regardless of being accepted for open enrollment at previous schools within the District.
For example, if a student is granted Open Enrollment to attend Eagle Elementary School, they do not
automatically qualify to attend Eagle Middle School or Eagle High School. The student would have to
pursue the Open Enrollment process to attend such schools.


8. In-District or Out-of-District transfer policy and Administrative Regulations do not apply to programs or
schools which are subject to their own enrollment procedures (i.e., Schools of Choice, CTE (Career Technical
Education) Programs, Charter Programs, Pre-school, DHH, etc.).


9. A student granted Open Enrollment must attend the school of admission by the District and cannot engage in
any In-District or Out-of-District transfer process. If a student utilizing Open Enrollment wishes to attend a
different school within the District, they must submit a new In-District or Out-of-District transfer application
to the school they wish to attend.


10. If the student does not consequently attend the school to which the transfer was obtained after an In-District
or Out-of-District transfer process, for a period of two years, the student must re-apply through the In-District
and Out-of-District transfer process.


11. Once a student has been admitted through an In-District or Out-of-District transfer and has attended for two
consecutive years, the student may complete their education at such a school unless their approved In-District


BoardPolicyManual
WestAdaSchoolDistrict



or Out-of-District Transfer has been revoked pursuant to Administrative Regulation.


12. Parents/guardians will complete an “Intent to Continue” to indicate they are planning to attend the current
school for the subsequent school year. In-District or Out-of-District transfer applications are required to be
completed prior to February 1st to ensure students retain their placement for the subsequent school year.


13. An approved In-District or Out-of-District transfer may be revoked for the subsequent year or mid-year under
the following circumstances:
The school in which the student is enrolled exceeds the maximum enrollment of the resident student or
program due to growth.


The student is chronically absent.


The student commits repeated, serious disciplinary infractions.
Defined as two (2) or more documented suspendable incidents within the year of the approved
transfer.


The student commits disciplinary infractions that result in expulsion.


14. The Director of Special Education will be notified if an In-District or Out-of-District transfer is going to be
revoked, and the student is served through IDEA.


15. State and District athletic eligibility rules and regulations govern participation in athletic and activity programs.


In no case is an employee of the District to recruit students outside their District or attendance area.
Discipline for violations of this policy/procedure may involve actions up to and including dismissal.


Student recruitment to participate in an athletic or activity program can have negative consequences on
the student participant as well as the athletic or activity program.


No student shall participate, including practice, until an enrollment decision has been made.


A student who desires to participate in any varsity sport governed by the Idaho High School Activities
Association (IHSAA) shall review IHSAA rules and regulations prior to submitting a Power of Attorney
Form. Certain school transfers will/may lead to student ineligibility to play at the varsity level for at least
one (1) school year.


16. Not less than four (4) times per year, the District shall post on its website the space available at each grade
level in each school and program.

**In-District Transfer Guidelines**


1. Priority will be given to In-District transfer requests as follows:


In-District transfer requests where the student has siblings already attending the school.


In-District transfer requests, where the student's parents work at least as a .50 FTE at the subject school.


In-District transfer requests, where the student's parents work at least as a .50 FTE for the District.

**Out-of-District Transfer Guidelines**


1. Starting with the 2024-25 school year, Out-of-District applications for students of District employees shall be
treated in the same manner as all other Out-of-District transfer applications.
