---
policy: "0501.90"
kind: AR
title: 0501.90-AR-04
---

**Procedures to Request Out-of-District Transfer for Open Enrollment**

These procedures shall be followed regarding a request for an Open Enrollment transfer by a parent/guardian for a
student residing outside of the West Ada District boundaries:


Parent(s)/guardian(s) shall complete the Out-of-District application (Enrollment | West Ada School District),
which must be submitted to the receiving school by February 1st for enrollment during the subsequent school
year.
Per Idaho Code, Out-of-District applications shall be accepted at any time throughout the year.


Applications received after February 1st for the subsequent year will be considered based on capacity as
outlined in the Administrative Regulation.


The application must be complete and include the student’s academic, attendance, and discipline
records.


Incomplete applications will be canceled and not considered.


The receiving school shall review the student’s Out-of-District application and a decision to accept, or decline
shall be made within sixty (60) days.


If the receiving school approves the Out-of-District, an approval letter will be sent by the receiving campus to
the parent(s)/guardian(s) within sixty (60) days of the application.
Upon the parent’s/guardian's receipt of this communication, the parent/guardian has a period of one (1)
calendar week to notify the receiving school that they are accepting or rejecting the offer of an Out-f-
District Transfer.


If the receiving school does not receive this notice within one (1) calendar week, the receiving school
shall assume the parent/guardian is not accepting the offer of the Out-f-District transfer and the student
will not be admitted into the school.


If the receiving school denies the Out-of-District transfer request, a denial letter explaining the reason for
denial will be sent to the parent/guardian within sixty (60) days of the application.

**Transfer Considerations by District**

In reviewing an Open Enrollment request, space available considerations must recognize and allow for growth within
the school’s boundary attendance area during the summer months and school year.
For Open Enrollment considerations, the following student/teacher ratios are applicable:


Kindergarten, Grades 1 -2 20


Grade 3 21


Grade 4-5 27

At the secondary level, to allow for growth in the school’s boundary attendance area, core classroom size per grade
level is the standard used to determine maximum enrollment for the purpose of Open Enrollment guidelines:


Grades 6-12 27


Grades 6-8 Alternative 16


Grades 9-12 Alternative 16

Core is defined as English Language Art (ELA), Math, Science, and Social Studies.

Regarding students who qualify for services under IDEA or other specialized programs, the following guidelines shall
be applicable:


Special Education Resource Rooms Case load per teacher of 20 students


BoardPolicyManual
WestAdaSchoolDistrict



Special Education Extended Resource Rooms No greater than 10 students per teacher


Specialized Extended Resource Rooms No greater than 5 students per room


Special Education Programs No greater than 12 students per full-time
Special Education Teacher/FTE


Blended Programs No greater than 12 students per room


18-21 Transition Programs No greater than 6 per room


SLP Services No greater than a caseload of 20 per SLP


D/ HH Programs Not available for open enrollment. Placement is
addressed only by inter-local contract with Districts.


Multilingual Learners (ML) No greater than 20 per full-time ML Teacher/FTE

**Waiting List**

A wait list shall be generated by each school after February 1st for the subsequent school year, with all students who
have sought enrollment but were denied due to capacity limitations. Upon parental/guardian request, the student
shall be placed on a wait list for the school/grade/program.

In creating the waiting list, requests for an Out-of-District application will be considered on a first-come, first-served
basis and will be accepted only on a space available according to the school/grade/program capacities after
preference is given to all In-District transfer applications to the requested school.

The wait list shall expire at the end of the school year and will not be given consideration for any opening the
subsequent school year. Any student on the wait list who seeks to enroll in the subsequent year in the
school/grade/program shall submit the appropriate documentation in a new application.

Should a circumstance arise that an opening exists which the student could fill, the school shall be in contact with the
family regarding the opening as to whether the family wishes to accept or decline the seat for their student.

Such discussion may include consideration as to whether a midterm transfer is in the best educational interest of the
student and the potential that the placement will or will not be available for the next school year. If a student
declines the open placement from the wait list, they shall be removed from the wait list.

In creating the waiting list, requests for an Open Enrollment application to a school outside the student’s attendance
area will be considered on a first-come, first-served basis after preference is given to all In-District transfer
applications to the requested school.

**Denial for Out-of-District Transfer**

Reasons for denial of an Out-of-District transfer application, include, but are not limited to:


The receiving school does not have space available pursuant to the above referenced student to teacher ratios
and/or program capacity limitations.


The student has a documented history of chronic absenteeism.


The student has a documented history of significant disciplinary issues within a year.
Defined as two (2) or more documented suspendable incidents within a year of the date of the student's
application.


The student commits disciplinary infractions that result in expulsion.

**Revocation for Out-of-District Transfer**

A previously approved Out-of-District transfer may be revoked under the following circumstances.


The school in which the student is enrolled exceeds the maximum enrollment of resident students or program
due to growth.


The student is chronically absent.



The student commits repeated, serious disciplinary infractions:
Defined as two (2) or more documented suspendable incidents within the year of the approved Out-of-
District transfer.


The student commits disciplinary infractions that result in expulsion.

Revocation due to student or program capacity or disciplinary infractions, short of expulsion will occur prior to the
start of school, at the end of semester or end of the year break. Notice of such revocation may occur in advance of
the semester or year-end break to allow the family to make appropriate arrangements.

However, pursuant to Idaho Code 33-1402, the receiving District may not revoke a transfer approval to a school
after two (2) consecutive years of attendance. If a transfer approval is revoked under this subsection, the receiving
school must offer the student information about other schools within the District that are below maximum
enrollment.

**Appeal Process for Denial/Revocation**


If an Out-of-District transfer is denied or revoked after being approved the parent(s)/guardian(s) may appeal
the decision to the Superintendent or designee within five (5) school days of receiving the written notice from
the school by completing the “Open Enrollment Appeals” form. (Enrollment | West Ada School District)
If the denied application reason was due to “over capacity” for the subsequent school year, appeals may
be submitted but will not be reviewed until June 1st due to the "over capacity" transfer request wait list.


For the subsequent school year, appeals may be submitted based on the other three (3) denial reasons
and will be reviewed within thirty (30) days.


The Director of Accountability and Support may choose to overturn the denial/revocation or uphold the
decision.


If the Director of Accountability and Support upholds the denial/revocation decision, the parents/guardians
may appeal the decision to the Superintendent within five (5) working days of receipt of written notice from
the Director of Accountability and Support.


If the Superintendent upholds the denial/revocation decision, the parent(s)/guardian(s) may request an
administrative review by the Board of Trustees in writing to the Board's Clerk within five (5) working days of
receiving the written notice.
The Board of Trustees shall consider the appeal at its next regularly scheduled meeting.


The Board of Trustees must issue its decision in writing.


Parent(s)/guardian(s) may appeal the Board of Trustees' decision of denial/revocation to the State Board of
Education as outlined in Idaho Code 33-1410.
