---
policy: "0501.90"
kind: AR
---

Building Administrators and the Superintendent or designee will administer the attendance boundaries policies and
procedures.

The West Ada School District will allow for the Dual Enrollment of students as provided for in section 33-203, Idaho
Code.

Dual enrollment options, upon meeting the District’s criteria and provisions of Idaho Code, are as follows:


1. Another Idaho Public School District with approved MOU
2. A Charter School with approved MOU
3. A Private School with approved MOU
4. Post Secondary Institution and has not graduated from High School – No MOU

Such District approved MOUs shall detail the responsibilities for various activities associated with the student's
education and attendance at each institution, including but not necessarily limited to matters of responsibility for
state testing, technology, special education, diploma issuance, transcription of grades, title programs, GT, ML, and
disciplinary records. Accordingly, when considering an application for Dual Enrollment, it is important for Building
Administration to have a full understanding of the student’s other educational activities.

**Dual Enrollment Guidelines**


a. All Dually Enrolled students shall be subject to all the same eligibility standards as a regular full-time student.


b. For all Dually Enrolled students participating in nonacademic public-school activities for which public school
students must demonstrate academic proficiency or eligibility, the Dually Enrolled student shall demonstrate
composite grade-level academic proficiency on any State Board of Education recognized achievement test, the
portfolio, or other mechanism as provided for in State Board of education rules.
1. Additionally, a student shall be eligible if he/she achieves a minimum composite score, core, or survey
test score within the average or higher than average range as established by the test service utilized on
any nationally normed test. Demonstrated proficiency shall be used to determine eligibility for the
current and following school years.


c. Oversight of academic standards relating to participation in nonacademic public-school activities shall be the
responsibility of the primary educational provider for that student as determined in the MOU.


d. The District shall provide nonpublic students who wish to participate in Dual Enrollment activities the
opportunity to take state tests or other standardized tests given to all regularly enrolled public school students.


e. Students may not Dually Enroll solely for special education. The Dual Enrollment statute does not establish an
entitlement to FAPE (Free Appropriate Public Education) for a student with a disability. This means that there
is no individual right to receive some or all special education services that the student would receive if enrolled
in public school. Dually Enrolled nonpublic or public charter school students could also be eligible to receive
services that have been agreed upon through the District and private school/charter school consultation
process. These services would be delivered through a service plan.
1. Reference the SDE Q&A on Dual Enrollment and IDEA Q & A for further guidance: Dual Enrollment Q &
A (idaho.gov)

**Procedures to Request Dual Enrollment**


a. A parent/legal guardian must complete the Dual Enrollment Application seeking to attend the school(s) in the
District in conjunction with the student’s other educational activities.


b. Pursuant to the identified ratios, the building administrator will review the availability of seats via the course or
program the student has requested to enroll in and either approve or deny the dual enrollment application.


c. The building administration must have a clear understanding of whether the student is attending any other
public school of the state of Idaho.
1. If the dual enrollment application is approved, the parent/legal guardian will be provided the District's
MOU to submit to the educational entity to complete. The parent/legal guardian will return the


BoardPolicyManual
WestAdaSchoolDistrict



completed District's MOU to the District school the student has dual enrolled at.


2. The dual enrolled District school will submit the MOU to the CFO for approval.


3. If there is a MOU, such must be put in place for the new student in question.


4. If there is not an MOU in place, the CFO or designee will take steps to put a new cooperative agreement
into place.


d. Registration and enrollment procedures are required of a student requesting dual enrollment status even if
only participating for interscholastic or nonacademic activity.

**Considerations of District in Processing Dual Enrollment Requests**


a. Dual enrollment requests are not applicable to approved In-District and Out-of-District transfers.


b. Dual enrollment requests are not applicable to Schools of Choice.


c. Dual enrollment requests are subject to available capacity at the requested school.


d. If enrollment in a specific class or program reaches the maximum for the program, priority for enrollment shall
be given to a student who is enrolled full time in the West Ada School District.


e. Regular full-time students will be given priority for enrollment at the start of each semester.
1. Middle school students who choose to take a required core class in a public charter school setting will be
limited to two (2) semesters of electives/one ( full year elective in seventh grade and four (4) semester
electives/two (2) full year electives in eighth grade.


f. If a class or program is full and includes a part-time nonpublic or public charter school student when a regular
full-time student transfers into the school during the semester, the District’s normal enrollment procedures
shall remain the same and the non-public or public charter school student may not be unenrolled during the
semester to provide space for the full-time student during the current semester.
1. A dually enrolled student may be revoked at the semester if the class or program does not have space
available refer to AR(2a) for student to teacher ratios and/or program capacity limitations.


g. If a student has been granted Dual Enrollment, the student must be coded in the District's student
management system designating that the student is dually enrolled.

