~0501.90-AR(1): Student Enrollment and Enrollment Options - ~
 0501.90-AR(1): Student Enrollment and Enrollment Options - --
Student EnrollmentStudent Enrollment


Status:Status: ADOPTED


Original Adopted Date:Original Adopted Date: 12/12/2022 | Last Revised Date:| Last Revised Date: 10/14/2024 | Last Reviewed Date:| Last Reviewed Date: 10/14/2024

**Age of Admission:**
No student may be enrolled in kindergarten or first grade whose fifth (5th) or sixth (6th) birthday respectively does
not occur on or before the first (1st) day of September of the school year in which the student registers to enter
school.


1. A child aged five (5) who has completed a private or public out-of-state kindergarten for the required 450
hours, but has not reached the age requirements for enrollment, shall be allowed to enter the first (1st) grade.
2. Resident children with disabilities who qualify for special education and related services under the IDEA,
school age shall begin at the attainment of age three (3).

**Documentation:**
Subject to the provisions of McKinney Vento, the following documentation needs to be provided upon enrollment:


1. Birth Certificate
A certified copy (original/embossed/registrar’s seal copy) of a student’s birth certificate shall be provided
within thirty (30) days of enrollment. (Section 18-4511, Idaho Code)
2. If a parent(s)/guardian(s) cannot provide a certified copy of a student’s birth certificate, other reliable proof of
the student’s identity and date of birth may be provided, accompanied by an affidavit of the parent/guardian
explaining the inability to produce a copy of the birth certificate. Examples of such other reliable proof of
identity and date of birth may include the student’s passport, visa, driver’s license, or other government issued
form of identification.
A student transferring schools within the same school district need not provide proof of identity and
date of birth if the student’s record already contains such verified information.
If any documentation provided by a parent(s)/guardian(s) appears to be inaccurate or of a nature that
causes concern or suspicion, school personnel shall contact the Superintendent or designee regarding
such concern.
A determination will be made by the Superintendent or designee as to whether law enforcement
shall be contacted.
If a parent(s)/guardian(s) fails to provide a copy of a student's birth certificate or other reliable proof of
the student's identity and date of birth, with accompanying affidavit, within thirty (30) days of
enrollment, school personnel shall contact the Superintendent or designee.
3. A determination will be made by the Superintendent or designee as to whether law enforcement shall be
contacted.
The Director of Special Education or designee will be notified if a student is served through IDEA.
The Superintendent or designee shall notify the parent(s)/guardian(s), in writing, that they have an
additional period of ten (10) days to comply with production. Failure to meet this requirement may result
in revocation of enrollment.
Immunization Records
4. A copy of the student’s immunization records shall be provided within 30 days of enrollment. A
parent(s)/guardian(s) shall provide a record, signed by a physician or physician’s representative, or other
licensed health care professional, verifying that the student has received or is in the process of receiving
immunizations as specified by the state board of health and welfare or can effectively demonstrate, through
verification in a form approved by the department of health and welfare, immunity gained through prior
contraction of the disease.
5. An exemption can be provided regarding this immunization requirement as follows:
School officials shall describe the exemptions provided in this section and provide a citation to this
section (Section 39-4802, Idaho Code) to parents and guardians regarding immunizations.
By submitting to the school, a signed statement indicating the objection on religious or other
grounds.
6. By providing the school with a certificate signed by a physician licensed by the state board of medicine stating
that the physical condition of the student is such that all or any of the required immunizations would endanger
the life or health of the student and therefore shall be exempt from this provision.
7. Education Records


The school shall request the student’s education records from the student’s previous school within 14
days after enrolling a transfer student.
The sending school shall comply by forwarding the transferred student's record within ten (10)


BoardPolicyManual
WestAdaSchoolDistrict



days, unless the provisions of section 18-4511, Idaho Code (relating to records of missing children
and red flag placement on student records) are at issue.
Transferred student records should include information concerning violent or disruptive behavior(s) or
disciplinary actions(s) involving the student. This typically includes records relating to expulsion,
suspension or significant disciplinary records. Records of this nature shall be contained in a sealed
envelope, marked to indicate the confidential nature of such records, and addressed to the principal or
other administrative officer of the school.
If a student seeking to enroll has been expelled at another school, such matter shall be referred to
the Superintendent or designee for consideration as to whether enrollment shall be permitted or if
such enrollment request will be denied, including consideration of any appropriate procedures
necessary for such denial determination.
Failure of the parent or guardian to provide the required education records or failure of the provision of
such records relating to a request of a previous school, shall constitute adequate grounds to revoke
enrollment to the transferring student or to suspend the student if already enrolled. Any situation of this
nature shall be referred to the Superintendent or designee.

8. Proof of Residency:


At the time of enrollment, the parent or legal guardian of a student shall provide proof of residency.
Proof of residency may include, but is not limited to current mortgage documentation, current lease, or
current utility bill clearly indicating the name and address of the resident.
Current is defined as within the last 60 days.
In addition to providing proof of residency at the time of initial enrollment, proof of residency shall also
be required at any time there is a change of address or a change of school including transitioning from
elementary school to middle school and middle school to high school.
If the school receives notification that there has been a change in address that the student no longer
resides in the school’s attendance boundaries and parent/guardian is unable to provide proof of
residency, the student will be withdrawn at the end of semester or end of the year break. Notice may
occur in advance of the semester or year-end break to allow the family to make appropriate
arrangements.
If the student is not residing with legal parent/guardian, then legal documentation must be provided to
the school with evidence of legal status to make educational decisions on behalf of the student. (i.,
Power of Attorney)
When addressing proof of residency, please also see Military Provisions and McKinney Provisions
detailed below.

**Initial Placement:**
The goal of student placement is to enhance the probability of student success.

A student entering school for the first time, at the age of five (5), in a traditional enrollment situation, will be placed
in kindergarten. If the student has completed the necessary statutory prerequisites for an out of state kindergarten,
consideration will be given as to appropriate placement for that individual student in Kindergarten or First Grade.

If a student is coming to the District from another public or private school, whether in Idaho or elsewhere, first
consideration will be given to the grade placement of the student upon exit from their most recently attended school
and the student’s level of success in that grade placement. This will be determined based upon a review of the
educational records received from the student’s most recent placement.

With regard to a student coming to the District who has not otherwise been educated in public or private schools,
Policy 0603.2: High School Credits and Graduation and/or any related Administrative Procedure should be followed.

**Military Provisions:**
Any member of the United States Armed Forces who has received transfer orders to a location in Idaho and will,
upon such transfer, reside in the District’s attendance boundary, may enroll his or her student in the District
regardless of where the student resides at the time of enrollment. Accordingly, such a student may be enrolled in
the District prior to being able to establish official residency.

**McKinney Vento Provisions relating to Enrollment:**
A student qualifies as a homeless student under the provision of the McKinney Vento Act if the student shares the
housing of others due to loss of housing, economic hardship or a similar reason; staying in motels, trailer parks, or
campgrounds due to the lack of an adequate alternative; staying in shelters or transitional housing; or sleeping in
cars, parks, abandoned buildings, substandard housing or similar settings. Other similar housing conditions may also


qualify a student under the provisions of McKinney Vento.

Under this act, a student who qualifies as homeless must be enrolled in school immediately, even if they lack
documents or have missed application or enrollment deadlines during any period of homelessness. If a dispute arises
over eligibility, school selection or enrollment, refer to the “McKinney-Vento Dispute Resolution Process” by
contacting the social worker or the District’s homeless liaison.

Date Adopted: 12/12/22

Date Revised: 05/24/2023;10/16/23;09/25/2024; 10/14/2024


