---
policy: "0502.80"
kind: AR
title: 0502.80-AR-01 Cell Phone and Personal Electronic Devices
---

To firmly uphold the Board's aim of minimizing disruptions within the educational environment, this Administrative Regulation is enacted to enforce the Board’s directives regarding personal cell phones and other electronic devices.

**Purpose:** This Administrative Regulation aims to establish robust guidelines for implementing policy 502.80 – Cell Phone and Personal Electronic Devices. It strictly prohibits the use of cell phones and personal electronic devices during instructional periods unless explicitly authorized and mandates that students not have cell phones or other personal electronic devices on their person to minimize distractions and cultivate an undistracted learning atmosphere.

**Scope:** This regulation is applicable to all students within the West Ada School District.

**Implementation Guidelines:** Cell phones and other personal electronic devices may not be kept on a student's person during instructional periods. Each school or classroom, as determined by the building administrator, must designate an area for students to deposit their electronic devices prior to the start of class, facilitating easy monitoring by teachers. This area may include student lockers, a basket, phone vault, or other conspicuous and clearly communicated "Designated Storage Area".

Devices must be powered off before being placed in the Designated Storage Area. This practice promotes an environment conducive to academic engagement and reduces disruptions. Teachers may opt to designate a responsible student or establish a rotation system for collecting devices, ensuring a smooth and timely process while fostering a sense of accountability among students for their belongings.

Smartwatches and other wearables are specifically exempted from the requirement to be placed in a "Designated Storage Area", but must be powered down during instructional time. Any use of or distractions created as a result of powered wearable devices will be subject to disciplinary action.

**Exceptions:** Occasionally, teachers may permit the limited use of electronic devices strictly for educational purposes during class/instructional time, provided that clear guidelines are communicated to students. In cases of emergency necessitating immediate access to electronic devices, the teacher may address them on a case-by-case basis, exercising discretion. It's important to note that this Administrative Regulation does not pertain to school-issued tablets or laptops, nor to equipment specified in an individual student's Individualized Education Plan (IEP), English Learning Plan (ELP), 504 Plan, Health Services Plan, or any other health accommodations.

**Device Retrieval:** Students may retrieve their electronic devices at the conclusion of the class/period, but only at the irection of the teacher. Teachers are responsible for conducting periodic checks to ensure that all devices are returned and properly accounted for.

**Enforcement:** West Ada personnel are mandated to rigorously enforce this policy and Administrative Regulation within their classrooms. Repeated or egregious violations will be promptly escalated to the building’s administration for further action using the discipline matrix.

**Loss/Damage**: West Ada School District shall not be held liable for the theft or loss of electronic devices brought onto school premises.

**Communication with Parents and Guardians:** It is imperative to inform parents and guardians about the electronic device policy and its accompanying Administrative Regulation through various channels such as newsletters, school websites, student handbooks, and other communication platforms. A designated point of contact at each school site must be readily available for parents or guardians to address any inquiries or concerns they may have regarding the policy.

This Administrative Regulation is effective for the commencement of the 2024-2025 school year and supersedes any previous regulations regarding electronic device management, either District or school-wide.
