---
policy: "0502.13"
kind: AR
title: 0502.13-AR-01
---

**Dress Code**
Students must present an appearance that is conducive to an effective learning environment for themselves and
their classmates and which does not materially interfere with school operations. Students are expected to
demonstrate pride in their appearance, which reflects individually on them and collectively on the school. The Board
of Trustees directs the Superintendent to establish student dress code procedures consistent with this policy. The
following dress code requirements apply to all students at all locations:


Clothing must cover the body from the chest to below the buttocks. This includes all private and intimate
parts of the body.
All tops must cover the stomach, back, chest, and torso. Shirts that expose the shoulders must have a strap or
fabric that goes over both shoulders and adheres to the other provisions of this dress code.
The fabric covering all private parts must not be see-through.
Pants/bottoms with rips, tears, or mesh are acceptable but shall not reveal or expose a private/intimate part of
the body nor cause a safety concern (e.g., a tripping hazard because the hem of the pant leg drags on the
floor).
Hats or head coverings are permissible at the middle and high school levels. Head coverings may not cover the
ears with the exception of those related to medical or religious exemptions. Hats or head coverings are
prohibited at the elementary level with the exception of those related to medical or religious exemptions.
Clothing must be suitable for all scheduled classroom activities, including physical education, science labs,
career-technical, and other activities where unique hazards exist. Specialized courses may require specialized
attire, such as uniforms, safety gear, footwear or accessories.
No clothing or accessories may depict prejudice, hatred, alcohol, drugs, tobacco, pornography, or profanity, or
denote gang involvement, violence, or illegal activities.
Secondary students must wear their school-issued student ID/Access Cards and ensure that they are visible at
all times.
Personal accessories must not distract from the school and/or learning environment and not pose a safety
hazard to self and/or others.

Principals may designate days when reasonable modifications to this Policy may be made, such as spirit or theme
days, etc. Such days must be set by the principal.

Nothing in this dress code shall be construed to restrict or ban a student’s wearing of religious clothing and/or
accessories, with the exception of unprotected speech. Parents having religious-based concerns regarding the dress
code are encouraged to discuss them with the principal. Any appeals of the principal’s decision shall follow the
District’s grievance process.

**Dress Code Enforcement**
Students in violation of this dress code will be provided with three options to meet the dress code during the school
day:


Students will be asked to put on their own alternative clothing, if already available at school, to be dressed to
code for the remainder of the day.
Students will be provided with temporary school clothing to be dressed to code for the remainder of the day.
If necessary, students’ parents may be contacted during the school day to bring alternative clothing for the
student to wear.

Repeat violations of the District Dress Code may result in further progressive discipline.
