
### Definitions:


1. “Advisor” means the faculty member working with curriculum or non-curriculum clubs to ensure the Club and
participant's compliance with applicable state and federal rules and regulations, District Policy, Procedure and
Administrative Regulations.


2. “Closed forum” means allowing only Curriculum Clubs.


3. “Club” means any student organization that meets during non-instructional time.


4. "Club Sports and High-Risk Activities/Organizations" refers to any activity whose subject or purposes are not
encompassed within the definition of a curriculum club as outlined elsewhere in this document or addressed in
Policy 503.80. Such clubs are initiated by students and are entirely independent of sponsorship, endorsement,
or involvement in any capacity by the District, the Board of Trustees, or any District employees. The District
bears no responsibility or liability for these organizations, and they are not covered under the District's
insurance policy. Examples of such clubs include, but are not limited to, those that the District's insurer
declines to insure or those that may lead to a rate increase if the District were associated with them, as well as
activities presenting inherent risks that the District is unwilling to assume.
Examples of Clubs Sports and/or High-Risk Clubs include, but are not limited to: Boys Rugby, Boys
Lacrosse, Mountain Biking, Hockey, Trap/Skeet Shooting, Archery, any racing involving an auto, an
activity involving a trampoline or inflatable device.


Club Sports and High-Risk activities are also addressed in Policy 503.80.


5. “Curriculum Club” means a club:
Whose subject matter is taught in an approved District course or will soon be taught in an approved
District course.


Whose subject matter concerns the body of courses as a whole; or


That may receive leadership, direction, and support from the school and the District.


Categories of Curriculum Clubs (school-related):
Interest-based Curriculum Clubs
Examples of Interest-based curriculum clubs include, but are not limited to Physics, French,
Art, etc.


Academic Clubs: clubs that have content ties to academic classes, but not an actual class.
Examples of academic clubs include, but are not limited to, Science Bowl, Battle of the
Books, National Honor Society, Trio, etc..


6. “Limited open forum” means allowing both curriculum and lawful non-curriculum clubs.


7. “Non-curriculum club” means any club whose subject or purpose is not included in the definition of a
curriculum club. Non-curriculum clubs are student initiated. Their meetings, ideas and activities are not
sponsored or endorsed in any way by the District, the Board of Trustees, or any of the District's employees.
The District does not assume liability for these clubs. A Non-Curriculum Club shall have a faculty Advisor
without compromising the requirement that such a club is student initiated. The existence of a faculty Advisor
for custodial purposes does not constitute the District's sponsorship for the Club, the Club's meetings, or the
Club's activities.


8. “Non-instructional time” means time set aside by the school before or after scheduled classes or at lunch.

**Application for Authorization for Curriculum Clubs**

**Authorization Process**


Curriculum clubs shall have a minimum of 10- student members for 24-25.


Curriculum clubs shall have a minimum of 15 student members beginning in 25-26.


Curriculum clubs shall have an advisor who is currently on staff at the school hosting the club for the school


BoardPolicyManual
WestAdaSchoolDistrict



year.

Initial Submission


Staff or students proposing curriculum clubs must initially submit a written application for authorization on the
District Club Authorization Form no later than the second Monday in October to the school’s main office
addressed to the Student Council Advisor.


The written application for authorization of curriculum clubs must include a club constitution.
The proposed club constitution shall include at least:
1. Name of the Organization


2. Curriculum club names, where applicable, will need to be consistent among schools. (i.e., Art,
Physics, German, Snow club etc.) Purpose of the Organization


3. Rules of the Organization


4. Officers of the Organization
Officer Positions


Election Procedures


Responsibilities/Officer Duties


5. Objective Membership Criteria


6. Meeting Procedures and Process to Amend


7. Letter award requirements if applicable


The proposed club Bylaws shall include at least:


1. Meeting times, dates, places, communication process and attendance requirements,


2. Financial management fees, budget, etc. (must adhere to ASB policy and procedures)
Financial statement, prior year's expenditures.


All finances associated with any approved non-curriculum club must go through the school's
bookkeeper and ASB account.


Curriculum clubs shall not have any outside bank accounts.


3. Communication protocols


4. Other Areas that may be addressed: Documentation of meeting minutes, Removal of Officers,
Conflict Resolution, Dissolution of Assets, etc.


A statement as to the identity and responsibilities of the staff advisor.
Note: A new initial submission must be completed when there is a new advisor


If the club is affiliated with a national organization, indicate what rules, regulations, and bylaws will or will not
be adopted by the national entity.

Annual Submission


For Academic Clubs, the annual submission must include but is not limited to:
Updated officers


Updated Bylaws


Any changes to the previously submitted constitution.


Proposed budget along with a financial statement of the prior year's expenditures.


All finances associated with any approved curriculum club must go through the school's bookkeeper and ASB
account.


Curriculum clubs shall not have any outside bank accounts.

**Review of Application Process**


Application Approval Process


Applications will first be reviewed by the school's Student Council and Building Activities and Athletic
Director. Upon the Activity and Athletic Director's approval, the application will be presented to the Building
Administrator for approval.


After approval from the Building Administration, the application shall be submitted to the District Office for
consideration of final club approval through the Superintendent or designee.


Final approval will be communicated to the Building Administration, Building Activities and Athletic Director
and advisor.


The club will be posted on the school’s website.

Procedures for Reviewing Applications for Curriculum Clubs


The review of applications for authorization of curriculum clubs occurs on a case-by-case basis.


Before granting authorization, the administrator must find:
that the proposed club would meet the District's definition of curriculum club.


that the proposed club’s purpose and activities comply with this policy.


The building administration or designee may request additional information from the staff advisor, or from
students proposing the club.

Purpose and Activities for Curriculum Clubs


In deciding the purpose and activities of clubs, students should consider ways in which the club can be of
service to the school or community. The building administration or designee shall deny authorization to any
club if the administrator finds that its purpose or activities would:
Violate the law, regulations or administrative rules or advocate such imminent violation of laws, regulations or
administrative rules or involving presentations in violation of laws, regulations, or administrative rules or is
contrary to the District’s curriculum on sex education or privacy rights of individuals or families. This restriction
does not apply to:
Appropriate discussions concerning the changing of laws, regulations or rules, or actions taken through
appropriate channels or procedures to effectuate such changes.


Discussion as to sexual orientation includes such subjects as combating unfair treatment, prejudices, or
stereotypes.


General discussions on sexually related topics.


Harass or denigrate any person or advocate such imminent action.


Intend to cause a person to fear to freely exercise or enjoy any right secured by the Constitution or laws
of the United States or the state of Idaho or advocate such imminent action.


Include any effort to engage in or conduct mental health therapy, medical services, counseling, or
psychological services for which a license would be required.

OR


The building administration or designee may request information and/or changes to a club’s proposed purpose
or activities which the administrator finds necessary to:
Prevent any material and/or substantial interference with the orderly operation of the school.


Protect the well-being of students and staff.


Ensure compliance with all applicable state and federal laws, rules, regulations, and policies.


Maintain order and discipline.


Protect the rights of parents and students.


Maintain boundaries of socially appropriate behavior.



Restrict activities harmful to the school’s educational mission.

Granting or Denying Authorization


The Building Administration or Building Activities or Athletic Director shall grant or deny preliminary
authorization to proposed curriculum clubs whose applications are found to meet or not meet the
requirements of this policy and administrative regulation prior to submitting application to the Superintendent
or designee. Authorized Curriculum Clubs


Staff Oversight
There must be a volunteer staff member for each curriculum club to provide oversight consistent with this
policy and the needs of the school. If there is not a staff volunteer, the club may not exist.
Staff advisors organize and direct the purpose and activities of the curriculum club and ensure
compliance with the approved club constitution and bylaws and with all applicable laws, rules, and
policies of the District.


Staff who serve as advisors need to ensure this responsibility does not detract from or impede contract
responsibilities.


Staff shall serve as advisors for one curricular club at a time.


Interest-based curriculum clubs are not to detract and/or impede the learning environment during
instructional hours.


A staff volunteer must have at least one year's teaching experience before serving as a club advisor.


If a curricular club has building administration approval for an activity during school hours, activity
leave may be taken.


All curriculum clubs must comply with the District's Policy 1001.20: Outside/Community Speakers
An outside/community speaker may attend on occasion to make presentations if approved in
advance by the building administration through the District’s approved form.


Non-school persons shall not direct, conduct, control, or regularly attend meetings or activities of
clubs.


Policy 0503.70: Student: Tours/Excursions/Overnight Trips and administrative Regulations need to be
followed.
See Activities & Athletics - Home (sharepoint.com) and click on the Student:
Tours/Excursions/Overnight Trips link to access the forms.


If volunteers are used to assist with Curricular Clubs, the Volunteer Handbook needs to be reviewed
along with completing and turning in the Volunteer Application, Volunteer Disclosure Statement, and
Volunteer Acknowledgment Statement to the school’s main office to be kept on file.
Raptor needs to be used for the Volunteer after the forms have been completed, turned into the
school’s main office and prior to working with students.


Facilities
The building administration or designee will determine and assign facilities for curriculum clubs consistent with
the facility availability and needs of the school.


The building administration may give priority to curriculum clubs over non-curriculum clubs.


The school may provide financial or other support to curriculum clubs.


T establish facility-use schedules and provide for custodial needs - each school may establish the non-
instructional times during which curriculum clubs may meet (e.g. curriculum club meetings at Excellent
High School will be scheduled between 2:30 and 6:00 PM Monday through Friday). Such shall be non-
discriminatory, equally determined and with a goal towards providing the greatest flexibility and
opportunity for all curriculum clubs to meet.


Each school may set the number of hours curricular clubs may meet per month, except that all
curriculum clubs must be treated equally (e.g., up to no more than 4 hours of meetings per month may be
scheduled for individual curriculum clubs).


Communications
Building administration shall determine what access curriculum clubs shall be given to the school social
media, yearbook, bulletin boards, daily announcements, public address system, etc.



All curriculum clubs must comply with the District's Policy 1001: School-Based Communications.
The designated mode of communication with students is "Remind."


All curriculum clubs must comply with the District's Policy 1103: District and School Operation Social
Media Policy.
Access to all curriculum clubs shall be equal and there shall be no discrimination between clubs in
making any access or use determinations


Membership
Each student must meet all eligibility requirements including:


Academic (passing classes or no Fs)


Compliance with the District's student handbook regulations including but not limited to drugs,
alcohol, attendance, bullying, harassment, etc.


Membership is limited to students who are currently enrolled in the school.
Students attending a school of choice may also participate in clubs at their boundary
attendance school outside instructional time.


Parental notice/permission must be granted for the student to participate in the curriculum club(s).
The District's approved program, "Aktivate", will be used.


Membership in individual curriculum clubs is governed by the following guidelines:
Clubs may require that prospective members try out based on objective criteria outlined in the
application materials.


Try-outs shall not require activities which violate laws, policies, or regulations of the State or
District.


Membership may not be limited on the basis of race, religion, gender, ethnicity, national origin,
disability, or any other state or federally recognized protected classification, may change or grow
from time to time.

**Compliance Concerns**

The building administration or designee shall investigate any report or allegation that an authorized curriculum club is
participating in activities beyond the scope of its constitution/bylaws, or is in violation of any applicable law, rule,
regulation, or policy.

After meeting with the staff advisor and the students involved, the administrator may do any of the following:


Allow the original constitution or bylaws to be modified to include the activities if they are in compliance with
the law, rules, regulations or policies.


Provide written notice to the advisor and students not to allow similar violations in the future.


Suspend the club’s authorization pending further corrective action as determined by the administrator; or


Terminate the club’s authorization.

Appeal of Decisions Affecting Curriculum Clubs


Any student directly affected by a decision made under this policy may appeal the decision within 5 school
days in writing to the Superintendent or designee.


The final decision will be communicated to the student, staff advisor, and building administration.
