---
policy: "0503.20"
kind: AR
title: 0503.20-AR-02
---

**Definitions:**


1. “Advisor” means the faculty member working with curriculum or non-curriculum clubs to ensure the Club and
participant's compliance with applicable state and federal rules and regulations, District Policy, Procedure and
Administrative Regulations.


2. “Closed forum” means allowing only Curriculum Clubs.


3. “Club” means any student organization that meets during non-instructional time.


4. "Club Sports and High-Risk Activities/Organizations" refers to any activity whose subject or purposes are not
encompassed within the definition of a curriculum club as outlined elsewhere in this document or addressed in
Policy 503.80. Such clubs are initiated by students and are entirely independent of sponsorship, endorsement,
or involvement in any capacity by the District, the Board of Trustees, or any District employees. The District
bears no responsibility or liability for these organizations, and they are not covered under the District's
insurance policy. Examples of such clubs include, but are not limited to, those that the District's insurer
declines to insure or those that may lead to a rate increase if the District were associated with them, as well as
activities presenting inherent risks that the District is unwilling to assume.
Examples of Clubs Sports and/or High-Risk Clubs include, but are not limited to: Boys Rugby, Boys
Lacrosse, Mountain Biking, Hockey, Trap/Skeet Shooting, Archery, any racing involving an auto, an
activity involving a trampoline or inflatable device.


Club Sports and High-Risk activities are also addressed in Policy 503.80.


5. “Curriculum Club” means a club:
Whose subject matter is taught, in an approved District course, or will soon be taught in an approved
District course.


Whose subject matter concerns the body of courses as a whole; or


That may receive leadership, direction, and support from the school and the District.


Categories of Curriculum Clubs (school-related) - see Policy 503.20 AR(1) for examples.
Interest-based Curriculum Clubs


Academic Clubs


6. “Limited open forum” means allowing both curriculum and lawful non-curriculum clubs.


7. “Non-curriculum club” means any club whose subject or purpose is not included in the definition of a
curriculum club. Non-curriculum clubs are student initiated. Their meetings, ideas and activities are not
sponsored or endorsed in any way by the District, the Board of Trustees, or any of the District's employees.
The District does not assume liability for these clubs. A Non-Curriculum Club shall have a faculty Advisor
without compromising the requirement that such a club is student initiated. The existence of a faculty Advisor
for custodial purposes does not constitute the District's sponsorship for the Club, the Club's meetings, or the
Club's activities.


8. “Non-instructional time” means time set aside by the school before or after scheduled classes or at lunch.

**Application for Authorization for Non-Curriculum Clubs**

**Annual Authorization**


Non-Curriculum clubs shall have a minimum of 10-student members for 24-25.
Non-Curriculum clubs shall have a minimum of 15 student members beginning in 25-26.


Non-Curriculum clubs shall have an advisor who is currently on staff at the school hosting the club for the
school year.


The following list identifies the non-curriculum club categories by the District.
Examples of Non-Curriculum Clubs include, but are not limited to, Chess, Outdoor Adventure, Just Serve,
Young Life, Fellowship of Christian Athletes, Dungeons and Dragons, Crochet, Knitting, etc.


BoardPolicyManual
WestAdaSchoolDistrict



Sports and similar athletic endeavors that are not affiliated with IHSAA are typically referred to as "club
sports or club activities" are not considered "Non-Curricular Clubs" pursuant to this policy but rather are
addressed separately under Policy 503.80.


Students proposing non-curriculum clubs must submit a written application for authorization on the District
Club Authorization Form no later than the second Monday in October to the school’s main office addressed to
the Student Council Advisor.


The written application for authorization of non-curriculum clubs must include a club constitution:


The proposed club constitution shall include at least:


1. Name of the Organization
Non-curriculum club names, where applicable, will need to be consistent among schools. (i.e.,
Chess Club, E-Sports, Bowling, etc.)


2. Purpose of the Organization


3. Rules of the Organization


4. Officers of the Organization
Responsibilities/Officer Duties


Election Procedures


Officer Positions


5. Objective Membership Criteria


6. Meeting Procedures and Process to Amend


7. Letter award requirements if applicable


The proposed club Bylaws shall include at least:
1. Meeting times, dates, places, communication process and attendance requirements


2. Financial management fees, budget, etc. (must adhere to ASB policy and procedures)
Financial statement, prior year's expenditures.


All finances associated with any approved non-curriculum club must go through the school's
bookkeeper and ASB account.


Non-curriculum clubs shall not have any outside bank accounts.


3. Communication protocols


4. Other Areas that may be addressed: Documentation of meeting minutes, Removal of Officers, Conflict
Resolution, Dissolution of Assets, etc.


If the non-curriculum club is affiliated with a national organization, indicate what rules, regulations, and bylaws
will or will not be adopted by the national entity.


A statement as to the identity and responsibility of the staff advisor.


Review and approval of a non-curricular club must occur on an annual basis.


If a staff advisor chooses to discontinue association with the non-curricular club, no meetings of the non-
curricular club may occur until such time as a new staff advisor has volunteered for the position and reviewed
the club's approved application and is approved by building administration. If no new staff member is willing to
assume this role, the club will discontinue operations.

**Review of Applications**

Application Approval Process


Applications will first be reviewed by the school's Student Council and Building Activities and Athletic
Director. Upon the Activity and Athletic Director's approval, the application will be presented to the Building
Administrator for approval.


After approval from the Building Administration, the application shall be submitted to the District Office for



consideration of final club approval through the Superintendent or designee.


Final approval will be communicated to the Building Administration, Building Activities and Athletic Director
and advisor.


The club will be posted on the school’s website.

Procedures for Reviewing Applications for Non-Curriculum Clubs


The review of applications for authorization of non-curriculum clubs occurs on a case-by-case basis.


Before granting authorization, the administrator must find:


The proposed club’s purpose and activities are lawful and comply with this policy.


The application otherwise complies with all other provisions and requirements of this policy.


The building administration or designee may request additional information from the students who are
proposing the club.

Purpose and Activities of Non-Curriculum Clubs


In deciding the purpose and activities of clubs, students should consider ways in which the club can be of
service to the school or community. The building administrator or designee shall deny authorization to any
club if its purpose or activities would:


Violate the law, regulation or administrative rules or advocate such imminent violation of laws,
regulations or administrative rules or involving presentations in violation of law, regulations, or
administrative rules or contrary to the District’s curriculum on sex education or privacy rights of
individuals or families. This restriction does not apply to:
General discussions on sexually related topics.


Discussion as to sexual orientation includes such subjects as combating unfair treatment,
prejudices, or stereotypes.


Appropriate discussions concerning the changing of laws, regulations, or rules, or actions taken
through appropriate channels or procedures to effectuate such changes.


Harass or denigrate any person or advocate such imminent action.


Intend to cause a person to fear to freely exercise or enjoy any right secured by the Constitution or laws
of the United States or the state of Idaho or advocate such imminent action.


Include any effort to engage in or conduct mental health therapy, medical services, counseling, or
psychological services for which a license would be required.

OR


The building administration or designee may request information and/or changes to a club’s proposed purpose
or activities which the administrator finds necessary to:


Prevent any material and/or substantial interference with the orderly operation of the school.


Protect the well-being of students and staff.


Ensure compliance with all applicable state and federal laws, rules, regulations, and policies.


Maintain order and discipline.


Protect the rights of parents and students.


Maintain boundaries of socially appropriate behavior.


Restrict activities harmful to the school’s educational mission.

Granting or Denying Authorization

The Building Administration or Building Activities or Athletic Director shall grant or deny preliminary authorization to
proposed non-curriculum clubs whose applications are found to meet or not meet the requirements of this
policy and administrative regulation prior to submitting application to the Superintendent or designee.


**Authorized Non-Curriculum Clubs**


Staff Oversight
There must be a volunteer staff member for the non-curriculum club to provide oversight consistent with this
policy and the needs of the school. If there are not any staff volunteers, the club may not exist.
Staff advisors assist with organizing and directing the purpose and activities of the non-curriculum club
and ensure compliance with the approved club constitution and bylaws and with all applicable laws,
rules, and policies of the District.


Staff who serve as advisors need to ensure this responsibility does not detract from or impede contract
responsibilities.


Staff shall serve as advisors for one non-curricular club at a time.


Clubs are not to detract and impede the learning environment during instructional hours.


A staff volunteer must have at least one year's teaching experience before serving as a club advisor.


A non-curricular club needs building administration approval for an activity during school hours.


All non-curriculum clubs must comply with the District's Policy: 1001.20 Outside/Community Speakers
An outside/community speaker may attend on occasion to make presentations if approved in
advance by the building administration through the District’s approved form.


Non-school persons shall not direct, conduct, control, or regularly attend meetings or activities of
clubs.


Policy 0503.70: Student: Tours/Excursions/Overnight Trips and administrative Regulations must be
followed.
See Activities & Athletics - Home (sharepoint.com) and click on the Student:
Tours/Excursions/Overnight Trips link to access the forms.


If volunteers are used to assist with Non-Curricular Clubs, the Volunteer Handbook needs to be
reviewed along with the completing and turning in the Volunteer Application, Volunteer Disclosure
Statement, and Volunteer Acknowledgment Statement to the school’s main office to be kept on file.
Raptor must be used for the Volunteer after the forms have been completed, turned into the
school’s main office and prior to working with students.


Facilities
The building administrator or designee will determine and assign facilities for non-curriculum clubs consistent
with the facility availability and facility needs of the school.


No preference or priority shall be given among non-curriculum clubs. All shall be treated the same and
there shall be no discrimination between clubs in making such determinations.


The school shall provide only the space for non-curriculum club meetings. No other expenditure of
public funds is authorized.


To establish facility-use schedules and provide for custodial needs, each school may establish the non-
instructional times during which non-curriculum clubs may meet (e.g. Non-curriculum club meetings at
Excellent High School will be scheduled between 2:30 and 6:00 PM Monday through Friday). Such shall
be non-discriminatory, equally determined and with a goal of providing the greatest flexibility and
opportunity for all non-curriculum clubs to meet.


Each school may set the number of hours non-curriculum clubs may meet per month, except that all
non-curriculum clubs must be treated equally (i.e. Up to and no more than 4 hours of meetings per
month may be scheduled for individual non-curriculum clubs).


Communications
Building administration shall determine what access non-curriculum clubs shall be given to the
school social media, yearbook, bulletin boards, daily announcements, public address system, etc.


All non-curriculum clubs must comply with the District's Policy 1001: School-Based Communications.
The designated mode of communication with students is "Remind."


All non-curriculum clubs must comply with the District's Policy 1103: District and School Operation
Social Media Policy.



Access to all non-curriculum clubs shall be equal and there shall be no discrimination between
clubs in making any such access or use determinations.


Membership
Each student must meet all eligibility requirements including:
Academic (passing classes or no Fs)


Compliance with the District's student handbook regulations including but not limited to drugs,
alcohol, attendance, bullying, and harassment.


Membership is limited to members who are currently enrolled in the school.
Students attending a school of choice may also participate in clubs at their boundary
attendance school outside instructional time.


Parental notice/permission must be granted for the student to participate in the non-curriculum
club(s). The District's approved program, "Aktivate", will be used.


Membership in individual non-curriculum clubs is governed by the following guidelines:


Clubs may require that prospective members try out based on objective criteria outlined in the
application materials.


Try-outs shall not require activities which violate laws, policies, or regulations of the State or District.


Membership may not be limited on the basis of race, religion, gender, ethnicity, national origin, or
disability or any other state or federally recognized protected classification, as such, it may change or
grow from time to time.

**Compliance Concerns**


The building administration or designee shall investigate any report or allegation that an authorized non-
curriculum club is participating in activities beyond the scope of its constitution and bylaws, or is in violation of
any applicable law, rule, regulation, or policy.


After meeting with the staff advisor and the students involved, the administrator may do any of the following:
Allow the original constitution, or bylaws to be modified to include the activities if they are in
compliance with the law, rules, regulations or policies.


Provide written notice to the advisor and students not to allow similar violations in the future.


Suspend the club’s authorization pending further corrective action as determined by the administrator; or


Terminate the club’s authorization.

Appeal of Decisions Affecting Non-Curriculum Clubs


Any student directly affected by a decision made under this policy may appeal the decision within 5 school
days in writing to the Superintendent or Designee.


The final decision will be communicated to the student, staff advisor, and building administration.
