---
policy: "0503.20"
kind: AR
---

**Definitions:**


Career and Technical Student Organizations (CTSO) is defined as an organization to enhance student learning
through contextual instruction, leadership and personal development, applied learning and real-world
application.
CTSO work as an integral component of the classroom curriculum and instruction, building upon
employability and career skills and concepts through the application and engagement of students in
hands-on demonstrations and real life and/or work experiences through a Career and Technical
Education (CTE) program.
CTSO helps guide students in developing a career path, a program of study and provide opportunities in
gaining the skills and abilities needed to be successful in those careers through CTSO activities, programs
and competitive events.
CTSO provide opportunities for students to hold leadership positions at the local, state, and national
level and attend leadership development conferences to network with other students as well as business
and industry partners.
“Advisor” is defined as a CTE certified instructor working with CTSOs to ensure the organization's and
participant's compliance with applicable state and federal rules and regulations, District Policy, Procedure, and
Administrative Regulations.

**Authorization Process for CTSO** :


CTSO program quality is a direct reflection of the active involvement of students. With that premise in mind, it
is recommended that each CTSO affiliates a minimum membership of ten (10) or more students on an annual
basis.
Advisor stipends are determined by the District negotiated agreement.
Each CTSO shall have a CTE certified advisor currently on staff at the school hosting the organization.

Initial Submission:


CTSO initial submission is tied to the CTE program and must be approved and recognized by the District’s CTE
Department as well as the Idaho State Division of Career and Technical Education.
The CTE instructor must initially submit a written request for authorization on the District “Application for
CTSO Compliance Packet” Form no later than the second Monday in October to the West Ada CTE office.
The initial submission must include but is not limited to:
List of officers


Bylaws


Constitution


Proposed budget

**Annual Submission:**
One advisor from each chapter shall submit the following documents to the CTE Administrator or Director.


The annual submission must include but is not limited to:
Updated officers


Updated bylaws


Any changes to the previously submitted constitution


Proposed budget along with a financial statement of the prior year's expenditures.

All finances associated with any approved CTSO must go through the school's bookkeeper and ASB account. CTSO
are not permitted to initiate opening any financial accounts outside the school ASB process.

**Teacher Oversight:**


Policy 0503.70: Student: Tours/Excursions/Overnight Trips and administrative Regulations need to be


BoardPolicyManual
WestAdaSchoolDistrict



followed.
See Activities & Athletics - Home (sharepoint.com) and click on the Student:
Tours/Excursions/Overnight Trips link to access the forms.


If volunteers are used to assist with Co-Curricular Classes, the Volunteer Handbook needs to be reviewed
along with completing and turning in the Volunteer Application, Volunteer Disclosure Statement, and
Volunteer Acknowledgment Statement to the school’s main office to be kept on file.
Raptor needs to be used for the Volunteer after the forms have been completed, turned into the school’s
main office and prior to working with students.

**Compliance Concerns:**
The building administration, District CTE administration or designee shall investigate any report or allegation that an
authorized CTSO is participating in activities beyond the scope of its bylaws or is in violation of any applicable law,
rule, regulation, or policy. After meeting with the advisor and students involved, the administration may:
Allow the original bylaws to be modified to include the activities if compliant with laws, rules, regulations, or
policies.


Members found violating any applicable law, rule, regulation, or policy will be subject to the following:


Provide written notice to the advisor and student(s) not to allow similar violations in the future.


Depending on the severity of the violation, the student may be considered for removal from CTSO
affiliation through administrative action.


Students are held accountable and expected to comply with the West Ada student handbook.

