---
policy: "0503.20"
kind: Regulation
title: 0503.20-AR-03 Co-Curricular Classes
---

- Co-curricular classes are defined as courses that have significant time and task requirements outside the school day.
    - Idaho High School Activities Association (IHSAA) sanctioned activities include, but are not limited to Debate and Speech, Drama, Music (band, choir, and orchestra), etc.
    - Student Council, AVID, Student Writing Center, and District approved Tutoring Centers, etc.
- “Advisor” means the certified teacher working with co-curricular classes to ensure the class and participant's
compliance with applicable state and federal rules and regulations, District Policy, Procedure and
Administrative Regulations.

**Annual Submission**
- For Co-Curricular Classes, the annual submission must include but is not limited to:
    - Updated officers
    - Updated Bylaws (if applicable)
    - Proposed budget along with a financial statement of the prior year's expenditures.
    - Letter award requirements *If applicable* (See Building Activities & Athletic Director for list of eligible clubs and activities)
- All finances associated with any approved co-curricular class must go through the school's bookkeeper and ASB account.
- Co-curricular classes shall not have any outside bank accounts.
    - The co-curricular class instructor must initially submit a written application for authorization on the District “Application for Co-Curricular Class Compliance Approval” Form no later than the second Monday in October to the school’s main office, addressed to the Student Council Advisor.

**Approved Co-Curricular Activities**

**Teacher Oversight**
-Teachers organize and direct the purpose and activities of the co-curricular class and ensure compliance with the approved bylaws and with all applicable laws, rules, and policies of the District.
- All co-curricular classes must comply with the District's Policy 1001.20: Outside/Community Speakers.
- An outside/community speaker may attend on occasion to make presentations if approved in advance by the building administration through the District’s approved form.
- Non-school persons shall not direct, conduct, control, or regularly attend meetings or activities of co-curricular classes.
- If a co-curricular activity has building administration approval for an activity during school hours, activity leave may be taken.
- Policy 0503.70: Student: Tours/Excursions/Overnight Trips and administrative Regulations need to be followed.
    - See Activities & Athletics - Home (sharepoint.com) and click on the Student: Tours/Excursions/Overnight Trips link to access the forms.
- If volunteers are used to assist with Co-Curricular Classes, the Volunteer Handbook needs to be reviewed along with completing and turning in the Volunteer Application, Volunteer Disclosure Statement, and Volunteer Acknowledgment Statement to the school’s main office to be kept on file.
    - Raptor needs to be used for the Volunteer after the forms have been completed, turned into the school’s main office and prior to working with students.


**Facilities**
- The building administration or designee will determine and assign facilities for co-curriculum classes consistent with the facility availability and needs of the school.
- The building administration may give priority to co-curriculum classes, over clubs.
- To establish facility-use schedules and provide for custodial needs, each school may establish the non- instructional times during which co-curricular classes may meet. Such shall be non-discriminatory, equally determined and with a goal towards providing the greatest flexibility and opportunity for all co- curricular activities to meet.

**Communications**
- Building administration shall determine what access co-curricular classes shall be given to the school social media, yearbook, bulletin boards, daily announcements, public address system, etc.
- All co-curricular classes must comply with the District's Policy 1001: School-Based Communications.
    - The designated mode of communication with students is "Remind."
- All co-curricular classes must comply with the District's Policy 1103: District and School Operation Social Media Policy.
    - Access to all co-curricular classes shall be equal and there shall be no discrimination between clubs in making any access or use determinations.

**Participation in Co-curricular Activities Beyond the School Day**
Each student must meet all eligibility requirements including.
- Compliance with the District's student handbook regulations including but not limited to drugs, alcohol, attendance, bullying, harassment, etc.
- Participation is limited to students who are currently enrolled in the class.
- For IHSAA approved classes that require competition, reference the District’s Activities and Athletic Handbook.
- Students who are participating in co-curricular activities that take place during the school day beyond the designated class period, must be passing all classes.
- Enrollment requirements for Co-curricular classes vary by class and are articulate in the board-approved course description book.
    - Try-outs shall not require activities which violate laws, policies, or regulations of the State or District.
    - Participants may not be limited on the basis of race, religion, gender, ethnicity, national origin, disability, or any other state or federally recognized protected classification, and may change or grow from time to time.

**Compliance Concerns**
The building administration or designee shall investigate any report or allegation that an authorized co-curricular class is participating in activities beyond the scope of its bylaws, or is in violation of any applicable law, rule, regulation, or policy.
After meeting with the teacher and the students involved, the building administrator may do any of the following:
- Allow the original bylaws to be modified to include the activities if they are in compliance with the law, rules, regulations or policies.
- Provide written notice to the teacher and students not to allow similar violations in the future.
- Suspend the co-curricular activities pending further corrective action as determined by the administrator; or
- Terminate or re-direct the co-curricular activity.
