
West Ada School District has installed automated external defibrillators in certain District school buildings to assist
those on school property requiring immediate medical intervention related to cardiac episodes. An automatic
external defibrillator (AED) is used to treat victims in the first critical moments after sudden cardiac arrest. It is only
to be applied to victims who are unconscious, without a pulse and not breathing. The AED will analyze the heart
rhythm and advise the operator if a shockable rhythm is detected. If a shockable rhythm is detected, the AED will
charge to the appropriate energy level and advise the operator to deliver a shock.

The AED may be used by any volunteer responder who has successfully completed approved CPR and an AED
training program. The defibrillator shall be maintained and tested by the owner according to the manufacture’s
operational guidelines. There shall be involvement of a licensed physician in the owner’s program to ensure
compliance with the requirements for training, notification, maintenance and guidelines for use. Any person who
renders emergency care of treatment or person in cardiac arrest by using a defibrillator must activate the emergency
medical service system as soon as possible and must report any clinical use of the defibrillator to the prescribing
physician.

The extent to which individuals respond shall be appropriate to their training and experience. The emergency
medical response may include CPR, AED or medical first aid. School employees as well as any person who
reasonable renders emergency care using a defibrillator without remuneration or expectation of remuneration are
protected under the provisions of Idaho Code §5-337 relating to civil immunity for the use of automated external
defibrillators.

For purposes of this policy, expected AED users shall complete training in the use of an AED provided by the
American National Red Cross, the American heart Association or through an equivalent course of instruction by a
similar entity.

The immunity from liability does not apply if the acts or omissions amount to gross negligence or willful or wanton or
reckless misconduct.
