---
policy: "0504.70"
kind: AR
title: 0504.70-AR-01
---

The board recognizes that childhood wellness is essential for academic success. Research indicates that becoming physically active and maintaining a regular physical activity program and access to nutritious foods reduces the risk of obesity and other associated diseases. 

## Provide students access to nutritious food choices.

1. Meet the standards required in Healthy, Hunger-Free Act of 2010
      - Smart Snacks in Schools guidelines
      - National School Lunch and Breakfast programs
1. Classroom snacks
      - Classroom snacks served during the school day or in after-school care/enrichment programs will make a positive contribution to student diets and health, with an emphasis on fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and/or low sugar items as the primary snacks and water/milk as the primary beverage.
1. Rewards and Celebrations
      - Staff will not use foods or beverages as rewards for individual academic performance or good behavior.
      - Staff will limit whole-class food rewards to two (2) per year and all food must comply with Smart Snack guidelines.
      - Schools will limit celebrations (birthdays, holidays, etc.) to no more than one party per class per month with nonfood items only.
      - Rewards and celebrations must not conflict with school nutrition serving times.
1. Food Fundraisers
      - To support student health and school nutrition-education efforts, school fundraising activities will include alternatives to food fundraisers throughout each school year.
      - Schools will encourage fundraising activities that promote physical activity.
    - Daily/weekly club/activity food fundraisers must meet the Smart Snacks in Schools guideline and will not be sold during the school day. The school day is defined as midnight, 12:00 am, before to 30 minutes after the end of the school day.
    - Each school will be allowed to have ten (10) food fundraisers per year that are exempt from the Smart Snacks in Schools guidelines (each exempt food fundraiser may not be longer than four (4) consecutive days of duration).
    - The guidelines do not apply to foods intended to be consumed outside of school.
1. Provide opportunities for physical activity and developmentally appropriate exercise.
    - Physical Activity
        - Schools will, at a minimum, meet state/district physical education standards and physical education requirements.
        - Provide time at the elementary level for supervised recess.
        - Provide extra-curricular activities that enable all students to select from a variety of sports and other activities.
1. Provide nutrition education/promotion.
    - Nutrition Education/Promotion
        - Schools will teach state health standards.
        - Nutrition education will be provided at least once in grade level bands K-2, 3-5, 6-8, 9-12
        - Measurable goals of nutrition promotion include, but are not limited to, becoming a Team Nutrition school, school gardens, and advertising healthy foods and beverages.
    - Other School Based Wellness Activities
        - Measurable goals include, but are not limited to, staff wellness programs, CPR/first aid certified staff, walking clubs, and extracurricular activities.
    - Food and Beverage Marketing
        - Schools will limit food and beverage marketing during the school day to the promotion of foods and beverages that meet competitive food standards and/or Smart Snack requirements.
        - Future updates to/or replacement of signs, scoreboards, advertising, and other sports equipment will meet competitive food standards and/or the Smart Snacks requirements.
1. Encourage the development and implementation of wellness activities and policy for and by students, families, district employees, and community members.
    - Evaluation of Wellness Policy and Implementation
        - The district shall take a proactive effort to both educate and encourage students to make nutritious food choices and will inform/update the public about the content, implementation, and assessment of the wellness policy.
        - The Superintendent or designee will establish measures to evaluate school compliance with the policy, progress toward wellness policy goals, comparison to model wellness policies, and implementation of the wellness policy and activities every three years (minimum).
        - The superintendent or designee shall ensure that a variety of healthy food choices are available whenever food is sold at district sponsored    events.
        - The wellness policy content and implementation will be available to the public on the district website.
    - The following stakeholders will be invited to participate on the district wellness team: parents, students, school food service staff, physical education teachers, school health professionals, the school board, and school administrators.
