---
policy: ""
kind: AR
---

**Emergency and Disaster Preparedness:**
All district staff and students must be prepared to respond quickly and responsibly to emergencies, disasters, and
events which threaten to result in a disaster.

The superintendent or designee shall develop and maintain a detailed crisis plan for handling emergency
situations. It is recommended that this plan be reviewed and updated regularly. Principals shall augment the district
plan with working site crisis plans and appropriate procedures specific to each school building/site. All students and
employees shall receive appropriate instruction regarding these procedures.

The superintendent or designee shall consult with city and/or county agencies so that district and site plans may
provide the best possible way of handling each situation. These consultations should also consider emergency
communications systems between these agencies and each district school.

District and site plans shall address, but will not be limited to, the following situations:


A. Structure fires,
B. Environmental fires.,
C. Bomb threats or actual events,
D. Mass casualty threats or actual events,
E. Natural disasters,
F. Man-made disasters,
G. Threats, attacks, or disturbances from groups or individuals.,
H. Other health and safety threats/events students.

The board shall grant the use of school buildings, grounds and equipment to public agencies, including the American
Red Cross, for mass care and welfare shelters during disasters or other emergencies affecting the public health and
welfare. The board shall co-operate with such agencies in furnishing and maintaining whatever services it the
Board/District deems necessary to meet the community’s needs.

Crisis plan teams shall meet annually at each district site to review the crisis plan and develop the site's drill
schedule.

**CPR, First Aid and AED:**
The following West Ada employees will be trained in first aid, cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and Automated
Emergency Defibrillator (AED):


Health Services Staff
Athletic Trainers
Secondary Athletic Coaches
School Administrators

In addition to the above employee groups, it is the goal of the West Ada School District that 10% of a school's staff
hold CPR with AED certification. Each principal shall encourage staff members at each school to hold valid
certificates in these areas.
