---
policy: "0601.20"
kind: AR
---


# Adverse Conditions

The Board of Trustees grants the Superintendent permission to close any and all schools in the West Ada School District in the event of an emergency.  The Superintendent or designee will notify the members of the Board of Trustees when the decision to close a school or schools has been made.

When there is inclement winter weather, school closures will be declared after consulting with public safety authorities and after District staff have conducted an evaluation of road and driving conditions. When emergency conditions, such as hazardous roads make school closure necessary, the media will be informed as soon as possible, parents will be notified by phone, email, and/or text, and information will be posted on the District’s website.  All efforts will be made to determine school closure due to winter driving conditions by 5:30 AM on the day of the closure.

The following employees are expected to report to work on school closures caused by inclement winter weather once it is safe to do so:

- District office administrators
- Building administrators
- Custodial staff
- Maintenance staff
- Other District office staff if directed by their supervisors

The Board of Trustees grants authority to the Superintendent to require other employees to report to work on emergency closure days as needed.

Idaho Code 33-512 allows the District Board of Trustees to reduce annual instructional hours required up to a total of eleven (11) hours for emergency school closures due to adverse weather conditions and facility failures.

In order to regain instructional time for students and teachers, if there are multiple days of emergency closures, the following options will be considered:

- Remote Instruction
- The Board of Trustees may adjust the school year calendar to meet [Idaho Code 33-512](https://legislature.idaho.gov/statutesrules/idstat/title33/t33ch5/sect33-512/) requirements for instructional hours.
