---
policy: "0602.30"
kind: AR
title: 0602.30-AR-01
---

Textbook Adoption Process


A textbook review committee will be created consisting of a membership of at least one-half (1/2) of which are
persons who are not public educators or school trustees and shall include parents of a child or children
attending a school or schools within the school district.
Textbook review meetings date and times will be publicly advertised via the district website and patron emails.
Publishers are contacted to submit materials to be considered for adoption. Publishers will complete a
correlation of materials to district curriculum and/or state standards.
Based on the correlation some publishers will be asked to present materials to the Textbook Review
Committee through direct presentation.
Textbook Review Committee members will use a rubric/score sheet to evaluate the texts and/or materials
based on agreed upon criteria. Using the results from the presentation, texts and/or materials are narrowed to
two choices.
The district will publicize a 10-day public review of the final two choices determined by the Textbook Review
Committee. The materials for the final two choices will be made available for display at the District Office and
at select building sites for the public to view and provide written comments. Public comments may also be
submitted in writing or in person when the textbooks are considered for adoption by the Board of Trustees,
and become part of the public record.
Based on the data collected from the committee and public comments, a final recommendation is submitted to
the School Board for approval.
If the Board does not approve the textbooks, the committee will start over and go through the process again.

Concurrent Credit textbooks adopted by universities or colleges, AP (Advanced Placement) texts aligned to the
College Board syllabi, IB (International Baccalaureate) textbooks and updated versions of a textbook are exempt
from this policy.

Reconsideration of Adopted Textbooks Process
When a textbook or other adopted curricular material are questioned by a patron, the following procedure is to be
followed:


A written complaint must be filed with the school principal and forwarded to the Director of Curriculum and
Instruction. The complaint should state the specific objection and cite examples.
A conference will be held with the appropriate Curriculum Coordinator, the Director of Curriculum and
Instruction, and the patron questioning the book/material within 10 business days of receiving the written
complaint. If the problem cannot be resolved, then an advisory textbook review committee will be asked to
review the book/material in question. An advisory textbook review committee, chaired by the Director of
Curriculum, will consist of teachers, patrons, and district administrators.
Alternate books/materials may be reviewed as part of the process.
The committee recommendation will then be forwarded to the board of trustees for a final decision on the
matter.
