---
policy: "0602.21"
kind: Regulation
title: 0602.21-AR-02 Selection and Reconsideration of Learning Resources
---

# Selection and Reconsideration of Learning Resources AR(2)

The Superintendent has the responsibility and authority over all learning resources contained in West Ada Schools that are not subject to board approval and designates the Building Principal to assist in ensuring that the materials contained within their schools are in alignment with District and community standards. Thus, the Principal, in consultation with the Superintendent or designee, shall be involved with the selection of classroom and library materials.

## Selection of Learning Resources
When a District employee is selecting a book or learning resource to be purchased with District funds, they shall do the following the steps below:

1. Consult reputable, professional sources to help determine if the book/resource is appropriate for its anticipated use. Prior to purchase, when a learning resource is being considered for use in a school or classroom library, consult the Book/Learning Resource Alignment Guide (Link Book/Learning Resource Alignment Guide).
2. Apply the appropriate selection criteria specific to the resource being considered for purchase:
- Selection criteria for fiction shall include:
    - A well-organized plot which is credible within its own framework;
    - Convincing characterization;
    - Skilled use of language;
    - Honest presentation of emotions, problems, values or ideas;
    - Originality, contribution to literary appreciation or aesthetic values.
- Readability and effectiveness in sustaining reader interest;
    - Selection criteria for nonfiction shall include:
    - Authority;
    - Objectivity;
    - Currency;
    - Authenticity of history or social setting;
    - Comprehensiveness and depth of treatment;
    - Representation of diverse point of view.
3. Review existing district-wide school library collections to determine if the book/resource is already available at commensurate sites, (e.g., elementary schools, middle schools, or high schools). This can be done in Destiny Library Manager, which can be accessed through the District Web Apps.
    - If the item does exist at a commensurate site, it does not need to be submitted for feedback using the Book Purchase Request Form.is suitable for consideration.
    - If it does not appear in the library catalog at a commensurate site, proceed with submitting the item for public feedback to the Book Purchase Request Form.
        - Parent(s)/guardian(s) of a current West Ada student  or current District employee may review a submitted item and provide public feedback through the Library Resources webpage for ten (10) operational days from the day of posting.
        - The District Library Coordinator or designee will monitor and share comments received with the District employee and the Building Principal to determine the next steps.
    - If no comments are received within ten (10) operational days, the District employee can proceed with submitting the book/learning resources for review by the Building Principal.

## Site Level Review
A school receiving a concern from a parent/guardian of an enrolled student or current District employee regarding a book/learning resource will first try to resolve the issue at the building/site level. In such instances, the following procedures shall apply:

- In an informal meeting, the building principal or designee, along with the most appropriate District employee, e.g., a librarian for media center resources,a classroom teacher for classroom libraries, or a counselor for counseling resources, shall explain to the complainant:
    - The District’s selection procedure, criteria, and qualifications of those persons selecting the resource, and
    - The placement of  the questioned supplemental resource occupies in the educational program.
- If an agreement is reached about the scope of the resource’s use in that building, then the complainant and building principal shall clearly state, in writing, the terms of the agreement. A copy of the agreement should be provided to the complainant, the District Library Coordinator, the Director of Curriculum and Instruction, the Chief Academic Officer, and the Superintendent or designee.
- If an agreement is not reached, and the complainant wishes to further challenge the use and placement of the resource, then the book/learning resource will be referred to the District Library Review Committee  and communicated to the District Library Coordinator, the Director of Curriculum and Instruction, the Chief Academic Officer, the Superintendent or designee and all commensurate level building principals.

## District Library Review Committee Reconsideration
After a Site Level Review has been requested, the Building Librarian will consult with the District Library Coordinator  who will determine if a reconsideration by the District Library Review Committee is needed.

The District Library Review Committee consists of:

- The District Library Coordinator,
- Librarians, and/or the most appropriate District employees at the same grade level who preferably do not have the book/learning resource in their library/school collection.

During a District Library Review Committee reconsideration, the book/learning resource being challenged will be reviewed to determine if the material is appropriately placed if the resource will be relocated or weeded.

## Request for District Reconsideration
Within fifteen (15) operational days of the concluded Site Level Review, a request for District Reconsideration may be submitted by a District parent/guardian or current District employee Patron. The request must include:
Documentation of a completed Site Level Review,
A completed District Request for Reconsideration of Learning Resources Form.
The request for District reconsideration must be submitted to the District Library Coordinator, and the Superintendent or designee. The District Library Coordinator will submit a copy to the applicable building principal.

If the resource proposed for District reconsideration is the subject of a current District Administrative Review or a Site Level Review, the formal reconsideration shall be stayed until the District Administrative Review or Site Level Review has concluded.

## The District Reconsideration Committee
Within thirty (30)operational days of the receipt of a written request for District reconsideration of a book/learning resource, the Superintendent or designee shall:

- Appoint a Reconsideration Committee:
    - The committee shall include the following membership:
        - The building principal or other administrative designee,
        - The teacher(s), librarian, and/or department head(s) directly involved with the learning resource(s). If a library resource is being reviewed, the librarian must be from another building at the same level,
        - The school counselor (as needed),
        - A district curriculum coordinator or assigned consultant,
        - Up to five (5)parents/guardians of a currently enrolled District student.
        - Any of the above school district staff positions may be filled by a designee in the event the individual is unable to participate.  The number of employees/administrators shall total the same number of parents participating in the Reconsideration Committee.
    - Parent members of the committee will be selected through the same process as the textbook hearing process as outlined in District Policy 602.30 – Textbook Hearing Process.
    - The District's Library Coordinator shall be the non-voting chairperson of the Reconsideration Committee.
- District Library Coordinator will arrange for the Reconsideration Committee meeting within thirty (30) operational days after the complaint is received, giving the committee members an appropriate amount of time to read or examine the work in its entirety before the meeting.  The reconsideration committee may consult additional district staff and/or community persons or parents with related professional knowledge.Failure of the Committee to be constituted, or to meet and/or complete this process within thirty (30) operational days after the complaint is received is not a violation of thispolicy.
- The reconsideration committee shall read/review the challenged book/learning resource and determine whether it conforms to the principles of the selection criteria as outlined in District Policy 602.21 – Selection and Reconsideration of Learning Resources and the Book/Learning Resource Alignment Guide.
- The Reconsideration Committee shall:
    - Determine professional acceptance by reading critical reviews of the resource if available.
    - Weigh values and faults, including concerns from the complainant, and form opinions based on the material within the context of the educational program to determine whether the resource, when considered as a whole, possesses serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific value for minors.
- The decision will be made within the scope of the complaint and will include one of the following:
    - The book/learning resource is compatible with the philosophy and criteria of this policy and should not be restricted or removed.
    - The book/learning resource is compatible with the philosophy and criteria of this policy but should be restricted to conditions specified by the committee, such as movement from middle school to high school or placement in the district library with access only by parent approval.
    - The book/learning resource is not compatible with the philosophy and criteria of this policy and should be removed.
- Voting by the Reconsideration Committee shall take place during the meeting. Each member of the Reconsideration Committee shall have one (1) vote.
    - If after an initial vote, a majority of the committee (50%+1) has not reached an agreement on one of the above-referenced resolutions, a re-vote will be taken between the two resolution options that received the highest number of votes in the first vote. If there are not two clear resolution options that have received the highest number of votes, a re-vote will take place at the discretion of the District Superintendent or Designee, until there is a majority of votes.

## Resolution
- The District Library Coordinator shall prepare a written reportdetailing Reconsideration Committee activities, considerations, and the final decision within ten (10) operational days of the decision being made.A draft of the report shall be provided to the Superintendent or designee prior to being finalized and issued. A minority report may also be filed and distributed.
- Once finalized and released, the written report shall be retained by the District Library Coordinator with copies forwarded to the Superintendent, the Director of Curriculum and Instruction, and the Chief Academic Officer. A minority report may also be filed.
- The District Library Coordinator will notify the complainant of the decision and will provide the complainant with a copy of the written report of the Reconsideration Committee.Reconsideration Committee members will remain anonymous.
- The decision of the Reconsideration Committee is binding for all district schools.
- If the decision is to remove a book/learning resource, notice will be given to librarians, school administrators, curriculum coordinator for the subject area, and applicable teachers.
- Notwithstanding any procedure outlined in this policy, the complainant shall have the right to appeal any decision of the Reconsideration Committee to the Superintendent, who will determine the merit of the appeal and review the decision of the committee to determine if referral to the board is appropriate or to make a decision to uphold or overturn the decision of the Reconsideration Committee.
    - A written appeal of the Reconsideration Committee's decision must be filed within five(5) operational days of communication of the decision to the Clerk of the Board.
    - Within ten(10) operational days after the receipt of the appeal, the District shall notify the complainant of the Superintendent's decision.
- The Superintendent may refer the appeal to the Board of Trustees.
    - The Board shall, at its discretion, determine if it is going to overturn or uphold the Reconsideration Committee's resolution as a final decision.
- The District Library Coordinator will notify the complainant of the decision in writing.
- Materials that have undergone a challenge may not be re-challenged until three calendar years after the recommendation of the committee.
- It shall be the responsibility of the District Library Coordinator to collect and maintain all District records associated with the activities detailed in this policy.
- Any irregularities in process/protocol may be addressed by the Superintendent or designee.


## District Administrative Review
At the discretion of the Superintendent or designee, a review of a book/learning resource may occur. The resource subject to such a review will be at the discretion of the Superintendent or designee. The review shall include the following steps and processes:
- The Superintendent or designee will schedule a meeting between the most appropriate District employee, e.g., a librarian for media center resources, a classroom teacher for classroom libraries, or a counselor for counseling resources, and their Building Principal ordesignee to review the book/learning resource and determine the level of appropriateness in the West Ada School District. This review shall include the same criteria as utilized for the selection of learning resources as outlined in District Policy 602.21 – Selection and Reconsideration of Learning Resources and the Book/Learning Resource Alignment Guide utilized by the District Reconsideration Committee.
- The following actions may be taken as a result of the review:
    - The book/learning resource is deemed acceptable for the age and school.
    - The book/learning resource is compatible with the philosophy and criteria of this policy but should be restricted to conditions specified by the Superintendent or designee.
    - The book/learning resource does not align with the West Ada School District program philosophy or the selection criteria of learning resources and should be removed.
- Decisions made pursuant to this process may be applied to other schools or District wide at the discretion of the Superintendent or designee. If the decision is applied to other schools or District-wide, the book/learning resource will be added to the District’s Declined list and communicated to all applicable building principals.
- Concerns regarding the final decision for a book/learning resource should be made in writing to the Superintendent and copied to the District Library Coordinator, Director of Curriculum and Instruction, and the Chief Academic Officer. The Superintendent will make a final decision regarding the text/learning resources.

For purposes of this administrative regulation, "operational days" shall mean days when the subject employee is on contract. Accordingly, the work associated with any review may not be completed during school holidays, breaks, or over the summer months. Such activities may be stayed, and the timelines adjusted accordingly, to complete the activities of this Administrative Regulation.
