---
policy: "0603.23"
kind: Regulation
title: 0603.23-AR-01 Credit for Prior Knowledge - Process for Determination
---

**Credit for Prior Knowledge - Process for Determination:**

- Petition to receive credit for prior knowledge must take place the semester prior to the course sequence of instruction for current students. Determination may take place as needed for incoming transfer students.
    - Complete initial petition request and submit to assigned academic counselor.
    - Depending on specific course content, a school counselor will contact the subject coordinator to determine the approved pathway for demonstration of prior knowledge. The counselor will communicate pathway to student.
    - Student/Counselor/Coordinator schedules time to take assessment or provides guidelines and due date for portfolio.
    - Assessments/portfolios are scored, and proficiency is communicated to students, parents, and school counselor. Content Coordinator will facilitate the scoring of assessments/portfolios.
    - Counselors communicate with school administration and registrar to facilitate the transcription of credit(s) graded as a Pass/Fail course into PowerSchool.

**Options for Demonstrating Proficiency of Prior Knowledge for Credit:**

- Successful Completion of unit assessments with a minimum of 70% or higher.
- Student Portfolio that demonstrates proficiency of 70% or higher on all priority standards in the course using proficiency scales for guidance.

**Awarding Credit: Sourced from Idaho code 33-6404**

- If a student earns credit under this section, then the student shall be counted as having completed all required coursework for that course and, if applicable, the prerequisite requirements that the course satisfies. This does not include credits for previous courses in a sequence.
- A course for which a student is awarded credit under this section shall also be counted as satisfying the equivalent number of credits toward the students’ graduation requirements.
- If credit is earned under this section, a student may not subsequently receive credit for a course earlier in the course sequence in the same subject area.
- Submission of portfolio or completion of assessments must be completed prior to course sequence of instruction.
- This does not meet the exact course requirements for grade replacement.
- Documentation of instructional history for credit for prior knowledge must be earned following West Ada instructional sequences. This will aid in the determination of placement within the course sequence of instruction/assessment.
