---
policy: "0603.20"
kind: AR
title: 0603.20-AR-01 High School Credits
---

**Credits**
One (1) unit of credit shall be granted for successful course work completion for each semester. One (1) semester equals one-half (1/2) year. Credit will only be accepted for high school courses completed in an accredited high school as outlined in Idaho Administrative Rule (IDAPA 08.02.03.105.01 ). Commencing with the Class of 2018 high school credit will be granted for high school courses taken in middle school if all specified district provisions have been met.

**High School Courses Taken in Middle School**
One (1) unit of credit shall be granted for successful course work completion for each semester. One (1) semester equals one-half (1/2) year. Credit will only be accepted for high school courses completed in an accredited high school as outlined in Idaho Administrative Rules. Commencing with the Class of 2018, high school credit will be granted for high school courses taken in middle school if all the following provisions have been met:

- A student will have met the high school content and credit area requirement for any required high schoolcourse if:
    - The student completes such a course with a grade of C or higher before entering grade nine (9)
    - The course meets the same content standards that are required in high school; and
    - The course is taught by a properly certificated teacher who meets the federal definition of highly qualified for the course being taught.
- The student shall be given a grade for the successful completion of that course and such grade and the number of credit hours assigned to the course will be transferred to the student’s high school transcript. Notwithstanding this requirement, the student’s parent or guardian shall be notified in advance when credits are going to be transcribed and may elect not to have the credits and grade transferred to the student’s high school transcript. Courses taken in middle school appearing in the student’s high school transcript, pursuant to this subsection, shall count for the purpose of high school graduation. However, the student must complete the required number of credits in all high school core subjects (IDAPA 08.02.03).

Students on the accelerated middle school math track (Honors HS Math I) and those in middle school Spanish I and II will have their credits reflected on the student’s high school transcript and these grades will be computed in their high school GPA.

**Dual Concurrent Credit for Approved College/University Classes**
District administrators will collaborate with institutions of higher education to determine appropriate classes, comparative curriculum, credit conversion, and specific processes for approval. A current list of available dual/concurrent credit options shall be maintained in the high school counselors’ office, in the district curriculum department, and listed with the appropriate icon in the course description book.

**Prorated Credits for New Students**
The district will prorate elective credits when appropriate based upon an enrolling student's official transcript(s). All prorated graduation plans will be developed based on the opportunities students were provided to earn elective credits and the length of time the student was enrolled outside of West Ada. All prorated graduation plans must be approved by the Director of Curriculum and Instruction. Upon approval of a prorated graduation plan, a new student must take and pass 16 credits per academic year (14 credits/year if the student selects to take a religious release). The 16 credits may be earned entirely while in attendance at a West Ada School District high school or may be earned in conjunction with online classes. Elective credits for Academy High Schools, Virtual School House and Rebound School of Opportunity students will not be prorated. The decision of the Director of Curriculum & Instruction regarding prorating credits is final.

**Home School or non-regionally accredited public, private, parochial – Freshman Competency Credits**
For purposes of this policy, an accredited school is considered by the Idaho State Board of Education to be one that is accredited by a regional accrediting association recognized by the Idaho State Board of Education. The recognized accrediting association by the Idaho State Board of Education is Cognia.

A maximum of six (6) credits (math-2, English-2, earth science-2) for home school students or students from a non- regionally accredited public, private, parochial school, may be accepted for ninth (9) grade credit(s) based on demonstrated competency on a district approved and administered test(s).

Allowable Freshman Competence Credits (6):

- English 9A = one (1) credit (1 exam and writing portfolio)
- English 9B = one (1) credit (1 exam and writing portfolio)
- Earth Science A = one (1) credit (1 exam)
- Earth Science B = one (1) credit (1 exam)
- HS Math I A = one (1) credit (1 exam)
- HS Math I B = one (1) credit (1 exam)

The District's Assessment and Achievement department has competency test procedures/information for students and parents.

**New Student Placement Considerations for Counselors:**
The school counselor will place the entering student in the appropriate courses and grade level. Appeals may be made to the Superintendent or Designee. The Superintendent or Designee's decision is final.

- Available documentation – transcripts, report card, test scores, work samples, etc.
- The student/parent/guardian’s assessment of his/her knowledge and abilities as well as courses believed to be successfully completed.
- Instructional materials with which the student has had experience.
- The student’s age.
- The school counselor will determine final placement after competency tests have been completed.

**Extended Learning Opportunities**
Per Idaho Code 33-6404 starting in the fiscal year 2023, a high school student may request credit for an Extended Learning Opportunity. In no instance shall the District grant credit for any extended learning opportunity where the student and/or family/legal guardian of the student paid any fee or charge associated with obtaining the credit. Further, no extended learning opportunity shall include activities for religious purpose or to help support or sustain any institution controlled by any church, sectarian or religious denomination. Students who have an Extended Learning Opportunity and are requesting course credit for a specifically identified component of graduation requirements, should utilize the Credit for Prior Knowledge route (Policy 603.23) upon the completion of the learning opportunity.

If the student who has an Extended Learning Opportunity is requesting elective credit(s), the student will submit documentation of the Extending Learning Opportunity to a committee defined by the Superintendent or designee prior to beginning the Extended Learning Opportunity.

Entities that may apply to offer Extended Learning Opportunities include, but are not limited to, nonprofit organizations, local businesses, trade associations, and the United States armed forces. Applications will go to the committee defined by the Superintendent or designee for review. Applications must be received and approved by the review committee prior to engagement in the Extended Learning Opportunity. No opportunity approved by the District will involve the payment of any costs or fees by the student or family/legal guardian. The review committee will determine whether a proposed Extended Learning Opportunity qualifies for credit to be applied to the student transcript. If approved, the type of credit will be based on the Idaho State Standards for a specific course of instruction; if it does not match the approved District course standards, the credit will be a general elective credit.

**Proficiency Testing**
Students may petition to take proficiency tests for placement only. Upon successful completion of the adopted proficiency test for an individual course, the student will be granted a waiver from that course and may take an advanced course in its place. No credit will be granted for proficiency testing.

**Schedule Change**
If a student drops a course after having been enrolled in class three two ( 2 3) days (3 "A" days or 3 "B" days), the course will be recorded on the transcript with an automatic “F” grade for the semester with no credit. Exceptions may be granted by theMTSS team.

**Withdrawing from school and/or transferring to another school mid-semester**
Students that withdraw from school after the first 6 days of a semester will have grades posted on their transcript with a W next to the grade earned at the time of transfer. Grades given during the semester of the transfer will be excluded from the GPA calculation. The withdrawal date, as well as the word "withdrawal", will be recorded in the title section of the transcript just above the grades. This same procedure will be followed for students who are expelled.

**Retaking Courses**
When students repeat a course, the exact course must be repeated and only the highest grade will appear on the transcript and that grade will be used to calculate a grade point average. No adjustments of student transcripts shall be made other than when a student repeats the exact course. During a student’s senior year of high school, any courses on a student’s transcript in which a student earned a passing grade but repeated can be considered for elective credit if a student is short of meeting the required electives to achieve graduation.

**High School Graduation Requirements**
All Joint School District No. 2 high schools are accredited through Cognia ). A student must meet the graduation requirements applicable to the year he/she entered ninth grade.

**Current State Requirements**

- ELA/Speech: 9 credits
    - English : 8 credits
    - Speech: 1 credit
- Math: 6credits
- Science: 6credits
- Social Studies
    - American Government: 2 credits
    - U.S. History: 2 credits
    - Economics: 1 credit
- Humanities: 2 credits
- Health: 1 credit
- Electives: 13 credits

**Total Credits: 46 Required**

**Assessment Graduation Requirements**

- Pass the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services Civics exam or the approved alternative.
- Senior Project: Students are required to demonstrate proficiency on the district’s senior project that includes a research paper and an oral presentation.
- IDAPA 08.02.03.111.04 (states in part) The comprehensive assessment program will consist of multiple assessments, including, the Idaho Reading Indicator (IRI), the National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP), the Idaho English Language Assessment, the Idaho Standards Achievement Tests (ISAT), the Idaho Alternate Assessment, and the college exam. All students in Idaho public schools, grades kindergarten through twelve (K12), are required to participate in the comprehensive assessment program approved by the State Board of Education and funded.

**High Schools (Centennial, Eagle, Meridian, Mountain View, Owyhee, Rocky Mountain)**

- English – 8 credits
- Speech – 1 credit -
    - Students who plan to take either competitive speech or debate to fulfill their graduation speech requirement must pass both semesters.
    - The state speech requirement may be met through successful completion of 3 years of AVID, which will include a sequence of instructional activities that meet the state high school communications standard.
    - Agricultural Communications meets the speech graduation requirement.
- Physical Education – 2 credits
- Health – 1 credit
    - Students who take Health Professions A and B to fulfill their graduation health requirement must complete and pass the full year course.
- Math – 6 credits – 2 credits HS Math I (or a higher-level math course that encompasses and exceeds the Algebra Standards), 2 credits HS Math II (or a higher-level math course that encompasses and exceeds the Geometry Standards), and 2 additional credits.
    - Two (2) credits of the required six (6) credits in mathematics must be taken in the last year of high school in which the student intends to graduate.
    - The following options will exempt students from the requirement to complete two (2) credits of math during the last year of high school:
        - Two (2) credits of a career and technical education capstone course; or two (2) credits of physics/AP physics; or two (2) credits of chemistry/AP chemistry prior to the last year of high school.
        - Completion of six (6) credits of math prior to the fall of the last year of high school, including at least two (2) semesters of an AP, IB, or dual credit calculus or higher-level course.
        - Completion of eight (8) credits of math, including successful completion of HS Math III (or higher- level math course that encompasses and exceeds the Algebra II standards).
        - Completion of two (2) credits of a career and technical education capstone course; or two (2) credits of physics/AP physics; or two (2) credits of chemistry/AP chemistry during the last year of high school - if the student has earned 6 math credits, and the student has completed HS Math I and HS Math II (or higher-level math courses that encompass and exceed the Algebra and Geometry standards).
    - College Introduction to Computer Science Principles, College Computer Science I, College Computer Science II, Principles of Engineering, and Engineering Design and Development courses may also be counted as a mathematics credit if the student has completed HS Math III or a higher-level math course (Algebra II standards). Students who choose to take College Introduction to Computer Science Principles, College Computer Science I, College Computer Science II, Principles of Engineering, and Engineering Design and Development may not concurrently count such courses as both a math and science credit.
    - High school math credits completed in middle school shall count for the purposes of this section.
- Eastern Geographical Perspectives – 1 credit
- U.S. History – 4 credits
- American Government – 2 credits
- Economics – 1 credit (Economics course includes the Idaho Financial Literacy Standards)
- Science – 6 credits
    - College Introduction to Computer Science Principles, College Computer Science I, College Computer Science II, Principles of Engineering, and Engineering Design and Development may be counted as science credit. College Introduction to Computer Science Principles, College Computer Science I, College Computer Science II, Principles of Engineering, and Engineering Design and Development may not concurrently count as both science and math credits.
- Humanities – 2 credits
    - Any interdisciplinary course, visual or performing arts course, or world language course that meets the Idaho State Humanities Content Standards.
- Electives – 22+ credits


TOTAL – 56 credits

**Academy High Schools, Rebound School of Opportunity**

- English – 8 credits
- Speech – 1 credit
    - Students who take either competitive speech or debate to fulfill their graduation speech requirement must pass both semesters.
    - Agricultural Communications meets the speech graduation requirement.
- Physical Education – 2 credits
- Health – 1 credit
    - Students who take Health ProfessionsA and B to fulfill their graduation health requirement must complete and pass the full year course.
- Math – 6 credits – 2 credits HS Math I (or a higher-level math course that encompasses and exceeds the Algebra Standards), 2 credits HS Math II (or a higher-level math course that encompasses and exceeds the Geometry Standards), and 2 additional credits.
    - College Introduction to Computer Science Principles, College Computer Science I, College Computer Science II, Principles of Engineering, and Engineering Design and Development courses may also be counted as a mathematics credit if the student has completed HS Math III or a higher-level math course (Algebra II standards). Students who choose to take College Introduction to Computer Science Principles, College Computer Science I, College Computer Science II, Principles of Engineering, and Engineering Design and Development may not concurrently count such courses as both a math and science credit. High school math credits completed in middle school shall count for the purposes of this section.
- U.S. History – 2 credits
    - Course content will meet the State of Idaho US History requirements for US History 1 and US History 2. Students who are transferring into an academy from a traditional high school may need to take more than two credits to satisfy the state of Idaho content standard requirements. This will most likely happen if they are transferring from a traditional high school that requires four credits of US History. If this is the case the additional US History credit may be counted as Social Studies elective credits.
    - Rebound Course Options: Students may take the traditional 4-credits in US History, the accelerated 2-credit Survey US History course, or any combination of the two that meets state standard requirements. Any US History credit exceeding 2 will be counted as a SS elective at Rebound.
    - Survey US History and transfer students:
        - If a student has successfully completed US 10A, US 10B, US 11A and/or US11B and transfers into an Academy, they may begin course work within one of the Survey modules that will assure they meet state content standards requirements.
        - If a student has successfully completed Survey U.S. History A and transfers from an Academy or Rebound to another district high school, the requirement for U.S. History 10A & B have been met.
        - If a student has successfully completed Survey U.S. History B and transfers from an Academy or Rebound to another district high school, the requirement for U.S. History 11A & B have been met.
- American Government. – 2 credits
- Economics – 1 credit (Economics course includes the Idaho Financial Literacy Standards)
- Science – 6 credits
    - College Introduction to Computer Science Principles, College Computer Science I, College Computer Science II, Principles of Engineering, and Engineering Design and Development may be counted as science credit. College Introduction to Computer Science Principles, College Computer Science I, College Computer Science II, Principles of Engineering, and Engineering Design and Development may not concurrently count as both science and math credits.
- Humanities – 2 credits Any interdisciplinary course, visual or performing arts course, or world language course that meets the Idaho State Humanities Content Standards.
- Electives – 15 credits

TOTAL – 46 credits


**Virtual School House**


- English – 8 credits
- Speech – 1 credit
    - Students who take either competitive speech or debate to fulfill their graduation speech requirement must pass both semesters.
    - The state speech requirement may be met through successful completion of 3 years of AVID, which will include a sequence of instructional activities that meet the state high school communications standard.
    - Agricultural Communications meets the speech graduation requirement.
- Physical Education – 2 credits
- Health – 1 credit
    - Students who take Health Professions A and B to fulfill their graduation health requirement must complete and pass the full year course.
- Math – 6 credits – 2 credits HS Math I (or a higher-level math course that encompasses and exceeds the Algebra Standards), 2 credits HS Math II (or a higher-level math course that encompasses and exceeds the Geometry Standards), and 2 additional credits.
    - Two (2) credits of the required six (6) credits of mathematics must be taken in the last year of high school in which the student intends to graduate.
    - The following options will exempt students from the requirement to complete two (2) credits of math during the last year of high school:
        - Two (2) credits of a career and technical education capstone course; or two (2) credits of physics/AP physics; or two (2) credits of chemistry/AP chemistry prior to the last year of high school.
        - Completion of six (6) credits of math prior to the fall of the last year of high school, including at least two (2) semesters of an AP or dual credit calculus or higher-level course.
        - Completion of eight (8) credits of math, including successful completion of HS Math III (or higher- level math course that encompasses and exceeds the Algebra II standards).
        - Completion of two (2) credits of a career and technical education capstone course; or two (2) credits of physics/AP physics; or two (2) credits of chemistry/AP chemistry during the last year of high school - if the student has earned 6 or math credits, and the student has completed HS Math I and HS Math II (or higher-level math courses that encompass and exceed the Algebra and Geometry standards).
    - College Introduction to Computer Science Principles, College Computer Science I, College Computer Science II, Principles of Engineering, and Engineering Design and Development courses may also be counted as a mathematics credit if the student has completed HS Math III or a higher-level math course (Algebra II standards). Students who choose to take College Introduction to Computer Science Principles, College Computer Science I, College Computer Science II, Principles of Engineering, and Engineering Design and Development may not concurrently count such courses as both a math and science credits.
    - High school math credits completed in middle school shall count for the purposes of this section.
- Eastern Geographical Perspectives – 1 credit
- U.S. History – 4 credits
- American Government. – 2 credits
- Economics – 1 credit (Economics course includes the Idaho Financial Literacy Standards
- Science – 6 credits
    - College Introduction to Computer Science Principles, College Computer Science I, College ComputerScience II, Principles of Engineering, and Engineering Design and Development may be counted asscience credit. College Introduction to Computer Science Principles, College Computer Science I, CollegeComputer Science II, Principles of Engineering, and Engineering Design and Development may notconcurrently count as both science and math credits.
- Humanities – 2 credits
    - Any interdisciplinary course, visual or performing arts course, or world language course that meets the Idaho State Humanities Content Standards
- Electives – 12 credits


TOTAL – 46 credits


**Multilingual Learner Newcomers**
Apply to high school students who:
- Entered the United States within the past three calendar years.
- Had a WIDA Overall Proficiency Score of 2.9 or lower at the time of entry.

- English – 8 credits
- Speech – 1 credit
    - Students who take either competitive speech or debate to fulfill their graduation speech requirement must pass both semesters. r.
    - The state speech requirement may be met through successful completion of 3 years of AVID, which will include a sequence of instructional activities that meet the state high school communications standard.
    - Agricultural Communications meets the speech graduation requirement.
- Physical Education – 2 credits
- Health – 1 credit
    - Students who take Health Professions A and B to fulfill their graduation health requirement must complete and pass the full year course.
- Math – 6 credits – 2 credits HS Math I (or a higher-level math course that encompasses and exceeds the Algebra Standards), 2 credits HS Math II (or a higher-level math course that encompasses and exceeds the Geometry Standards), and 2 additional credits.
    - College Introduction to Computer Science Principles, College Computer Science I, College Computer Science II, Principles of Engineering, and Engineering Design and Development courses may also be counted as a mathematics credit if the student has completed HS Math III or a higher-level math course (Algebra II standards). Students who choose to take College Introduction to Computer Science Principles, College Computer Science I, College Computer Science II, Principles of Engineering, and Engineering Design and Development may not concurrently count such courses as both a math and science credit.
    - High school math credits completed in middle school shall count for the purposes of this section.
- Eastern Geographical Perspectives – 1 credit
- U.S. History – 4 credits
- American Government– 2 credits
- Economics – 1 credit (Economics course includes the Idaho Financial Literacy Standards)
- Science – 6 credits
    - College Introduction to Computer Science Principles, College Computer Science I, College Computer Science II, Principles of Engineering, and Engineering Design and Development may be counted as science credit. College Introduction to Computer Science Principles, College Computer Science I, College Computer Science II, Principles of Engineering, and Engineering Design and Development may not concurrently count as both science and math credits.
- Humanities – 2 credits
    - Any interdisciplinary course, visual or performing arts course, or world language course that meets the Idaho State Humanities Content Standards
- Electives – 12 credits

TOTAL – 46 credits

**Renaissance High School**

- English – 8 credits
- Speech – 0 credits
    - The state speech requirement will be met through core classes’ freshman and sophomore years which will include a sequence of instructional activities that meet the state high school communications standards. Core is defined as ELA, math, science, and social studies.
- Math – 6 credits – 2 credits HS Math I (or a higher-level math course that encompasses and exceeds the Algebra Standards), 2 credits HS Math II (or a higher-level math course that encompasses and exceeds the Geometry Standards), and 2 additional credits.
    - Two (2) credits of the required six (6) credits of mathematics must be taken in the last year of high school in which the student intends to graduate.
    - The following options will exempt students from the requirement to complete two (2) credits of math during the last year of high school:
        - Two (2) credits of a career and technical education capstone course; or two (2) credits of physics/AP physics; or two (2) credits of chemistry/AP chemistry prior to the last year of high school.
        - Completion of six (6) credits of math prior to the fall of the last year of high school, including at least two (2) semesters of an AP or dual credit calculus or higher-level course.
        - Completion of eight (8) credits of math, including successful completion of HS Math III (or higher- level math course that encompasses and exceeds the Algebra II standards).
        - Completion of two (2) credits of a career and technical education capstone course; or two (2) credits of physics/AP physics; or two (2) credits of chemistry/AP chemistry during the last year of high school - if the student has earned 6 or math credits, and the student has completed HS Math I and HS Math II (or higher-level math courses that encompass and exceed the Algebra and Geometry standards).
    - College Introduction to Computer Science Principles, College Computer Science I, College Computer Science II, Principles of Engineering, and Engineering Design and Development courses may also be counted as a mathematics credit if the student has completed HS Math III or a higher-level math course (Algebra II standards). Students who choose to take College Introduction to Computer Science Principles, College Computer Science I, College Computer Science II, Principles of Engineering, and Engineering Design and Development may not concurrently count such courses as both a math and science credit.
    - High school math credits completed in middle school shall count for the purposes of this section.
- Eastern Geographical Perspectives (or equivalent) - 1 credit
    - 1 semester of any of the following course offerings will satisfy the Eastern Geographical Perspectives' graduation requirement at RHS:
    - IB Social and Cultural Anthropology
    - IB Geography
    - College Middle East History & Culture
- U.S. History-Survey – 2 credits
    - Survey U.S. History and transfer students: If a student has successfully completed Survey U.S. History A and transfers from Renaissance High School (RHS) to another district high school, the requirements for U.S. History 10 A and B have been met. If a student has successfully completed Survey U.S. History B and transfers from RHS to another district high school, the requirements for U.S. History 11 A and B have been met. Students enrolled in Survey U.S. History are required to satisfy the eight (8) Social Studies credit requirement by taking additional Social Studies elective classes.
- American Government. – 2 credits
- Economics – 1 credit (Economics course includes the Idaho Financial Literacy Standards)
- Science – 6 credits
    - College Introduction to Computer Science Principles, College Computer Science I, College Computer Science II, Principles of Engineering, and Engineering Design and Development may be counted as science credit. College Introduction to Computer Science Principles, College Computer Science I, College Computer Science II, Principles of Engineering, and Engineering Design and Development may not concurrently count as both science and math credits.
- Physical Education – 2 credits
- Health – 1 credit
    - Students who take Health Professions A and B to fulfill their graduation health requirement must complete and pass the full year course.
- World Language – 4 credits
- 21st Century Skills – 1 credit
- Music or Art – 2 credits
- Theory of Knowledge or Personal and Professional Skills – 2 credits
    - Students who are enrolled at RHS in the IB Diploma Program and the Associate of University Studies Program must complete the Theory of Knowledge (TOK) classes.
    - Students who are enrolled at RHS in the IB Career Program must complete the Personal & Professional Skills (PPS) classes.
    - Senior Project a research and an oral presentation will be facilitated in the TOK or PPS classes.
- Electives – 16+ credits


TOTAL – 56 credits

**Idaho Fine Arts Academy**

- English – 8 credits
- Speech – 1 credit
- Math – 6 credits – 2 credits HS Math I (or a higher-level math course that encompasses and exceeds the Algebra Standards), 2 credits HS Math II (or a higher-level math course that encompasses and exceeds the Geometry Standards), and 2 additional credits.
    - Two (2) credits of the required six (6) credits of mathematics must be taken in the last year of high school in which the student intends to graduate.
    - The following options will exempt students from the requirement to complete two (2) credits of math during the last year of high school:
        - Two (2) credits of a career and technical education capstone course; or two (2) credits of physics/AP physics; or two (2) credits of chemistry/AP chemistry prior to the last year of high school.
        - Completion of six (6) credits of math prior to the fall of the last year of high school, including at least two (2) semesters of an AP or dual credit calculus or higher-level course.
        - Completion of eight (8) credits of math, including successful completion of HS Math III (or higher-level math course that encompasses and exceeds the Algebra II standards).
        - Completion of two (2) credits of a career and technical education capstone course; or two (2) credits of physics/AP physics; or two (2) credits of chemistry/AP chemistry during the last year of high school - if the student has earned 6 or math credits, and the student has completed HS Math I and HS Math II (or higher-level math courses that encompass and exceed the Algebra and Geometry standards).
    - College Introduction to Computer Science Principles, College Computer Science I, College Computer Science II, Principles of Engineering, and Engineering Design and Development courses may also be counted as a mathematics credit if the student has completed HS Math III or a higher-level math course (Algebra II standards). Students who choose to take College Introduction to Computer Science Principles, College Computer Science I, College Computer Science II, Principles of Engineering, and Engineering Design and Development may not concurrently count such courses as both a math and science credit.
    - High school math credits completed in middle school shall count for the purposes of this section.
- Eastern Geographical Perspectives – 1 credit
- U.S. History – 4 credits
- American Government – 2 credits
- Economics – 1 credit (Economics course includes the Idaho Financial Literacy Standards)
- Science – 6 credits
    - College Introduction to Computer Science Principles, College Computer Science I, College Computer Science II, Principles of Engineering, and Engineering Design and Development may be counted as science credit. College Introduction to Computer Science Principles, College Computer Science I, College Computer Science II, Principles of Engineering, and Engineering Design and Development may not concurrently count as both science and math credits.
- Physical Education – 2 credits
- Health – 1 credit
- Humanities – 2 credits
    - Any interdisciplinary course, visual or performing arts course, or world language course that meets the Idaho State Humanities Content Standards.
- Emphasis/Electives – 22+ credits
- Artistic Emphasis (Music, Dance, Theater, Visual Arts)

TOTAL – 56 credits


**Career and Technical Education Capstone Courses (Meets the senior math requirement)**


- Accounting II - Computerized Accounting
- Advanced Culinary Arts
- Advanced Early Childhood Education
- Advanced Education Assistant
- Advanced Small Gasoline Engines II
- Animal Science IV (2025-2026 and beyond)
- Automotive Technology III
- Broadcast Technology
- Business Ownership Entrepreneurship (2025-2026 and beyond)
- Principles of Business Management and Business Ownership Entrepreneurship (Retitled to Business Ownership Entrepreneurship)
- Certified Nursing Assistant
- College Computer Science II
- Collision Repair III
- Construction Trades III
- Database Design & Programming
- Diesel Technology III
- Digital Photography III
- Emergency Medical Technician
- Engineering Design & Development
- Fire Service II
- Graphic Design III (2025-2026 and beyond)
- Graphic Design/Communication III (retitled to Graphic Design III)
- HSB Principles of Management and HSB Business Strategies
- Horticulture Landscape
- Law Enforcement, Detention and Corrections II
- Occupational & Career Experience-Media Technologies (taken prior to 2025-2026)
- Pharmacy Technician
- Sports Medicine III
- Veterinary Science (retitled to Animal Science IV)
- Welding IV

**Online Courses & Correspondence Courses**
The final grade of a correspondence or online Cognia accredited course must be posted prior to the graduation ceremony.
