---
created: 2007-12-11
updated: 2016-12-13
reviewed: 2016-12-13
legal: Code of Idaho 33-1401 to 1404
title: Foreign Exchange Students
code: 0501.80
---

#  

## DEFINITIONS:

“Foreign student” or “F-1 visa holder” means an alien having a residence in a foreign country which he or she has no intention of abandoning, who is a bona fide student qualified to pursue a full course of study and who seeks to enter the United States temporarily and solely for the purpose of pursuing such a course of study at an established academic high school particularly designated by him or her and approved by the Attorney General after consultation with the Secretary of Education. *Note: Joint School District No. 2 does not offer I-20 forms for students with F-1 visas and therefore does not accept students with F-1 visa’s.

“Foreign exchange visitor” or “J-1 visa holder” means an alien having a residence in a foreign country which he or she has no intention of abandoning who is a bona fide student, scholar, trainee, teacher, professor, research assistant, specialist, or leader in a field of specialized knowledge or skill, or other person of similar description, who is coming temporarily to the United States as a participant in a program designated by the Department of State, Bureau of Consular Affairs, for the purpose of teaching, instructing or lecturing, studying, observing, conducting research, consulting, demonstrating special skills, or receiving training. The terms “Foreign exchange visitor” or “J-1 visa holder” also include the spouse and minor children of any such alien if accompanying him or her or following to join him or her.

A “Foreign Exchange Student” is defined as a student from a foreign country studying in the United States under the sponsorship of an exchange organization, a cultural exchange program, or an international exchange program, etc...

22 CFR 62.40: Termination of program participation.

1. Students agree to abide by all applicable laws, including the exchange program’s rules and any contractual
agreements. Failure to abide by all laws and rules will result in termination of the student’s participation in the
program. A sponsor shall terminate an exchange visitor’s participation in its program when the exchange visitor:


1. Fails to pursue the activities for which he or she was admitted to the United States;
1. Is unable to continue, unless otherwise exempted pursuant to these regulations;
1. Violates the Exchange Visitor Program regulations and/or the sponsor’s rules governing the program, if, in the sponsor’s opinion, termination is warranted;
1. Willfully fails to maintain the insurance coverage required under §62.14 of these regulations;
    1. An exchange visitor’s participation in the Exchange Visitor Program is subject to termination when he or she engages in unauthorized employment. Upon establishing such violation, the Department of State shall terminate the exchange visitor’s participation in the Exchange Visitor Program.

## GENERAL

The district will follow the regulations for exchange programs as defined by the United States Information Agency and/or the Council on Standards for International Educational Travel.

Foreign exchange students shall be permitted, under certain conditions, to enroll in Joint School District No. 2 but the District does reserve the right to withdraw a foreign exchange student and to exclude an exchange organization based on the terms set forth in this policy.

Approval will be made only for those students who are sponsored by exchange organizations which have Student Exchange Visitor Programs designation as listed by the United States Information Agency and/or the Council on Standards for International Educational Travel.

Applications of students that have graduated in their home country will not be considered.

The maximum number of students allowed at each high school will be five (5).

Only one (1) student per sponsor organization will be allowed per school.

Students will be accepted on a first-come first-serve basis.

Foreign exchange students will be enrolled only at the beginning of the first semester

Foreign exchange students should not expect to receive any free services from the district such as yearbooks, activity cards, lunches, ski passes, etc.

Foreign exchange students will be enrolled at the 11th grade Junior level only. Counselors will enroll approved foreign exchange students in a full schedule of 11th grade, Junior level classes. Foreign Exchange students will not be enrolled in 12th grade Senior level core classes (non-electives) required for graduation. Foreign Exchange students will not receive a diploma or participate in graduation ceremonies.

It will be the responsibility of the sponsoring organization to provide tutors and/or any necessary assistance required to help the foreign exchange student meet acceptable standards. If this cannot be accomplished, the student faces withdrawal from the school.

Foreign exchange students will participate in classes as regular school students.

Foreign exchange students will not be enrolled on a non-credit or audit basis. They are required to take the examinations and do the work required by the teachers of the classes for which they are enrolled. This includes compliance with the school district’s attendance and discipline policy.

Foreign Exchange students that receive a major disciplinary referral as defined in the High School Student Handbook will be withdrawn from the program.

If after two (2) week adjustment period a foreign exchange student is not demonstrating an acceptable proficiency level in English, the building designee will notify the local exchange organization representative that a district approved English language proficiency test will be administered to determine the student’s English proficiency level. If the student does not score at an acceptable English proficiency level on the district administered test, the building designee will notify the exchange organization representative and begin withdrawal procedures.

## EXCHANGE ORGANIZATION REQUIREMENTS:

The permanent host family must be living within the appropriate school boundary by the first day of semester.

The exchange organization must provide local orientation for host families and students. Joint School District No. 2 will not provide orientation for host families and students.

The exchange organization must have an active local representative.

Each exchange organization must submit a fully completed application for each student to be placed to the building designee at each school. Incomplete applications will be returned to the exchange organization and the application of that student will not be considered.

The sponsoring agencies’ applications must include in English:

- All legal documents showing the prospective student’s required forms for entry into the United States
- Address and contact information of the host family
- A behavioral history of the student
- Transcript
- Immunization records that meet State and Federal requirements
- A medical history that includes any allergies
- A written agreement that information from the student management software will be given to the host family and the sponsoring agency
- Three letters of references from community and school officials which must include statements about how the student may fit into a new setting
- Documentation of English proficiency is required and students must meet one of the following standards:
- Score a 94+ on the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL), 4 (fluent) or above on the Woodcock-Munoz, 4 (proficient) or above on the LAS, or score proficient or above on another district recognized English language proficiency assessment.

The district reserves the right to individually evaluate each student by means of personal interview, a written essay or to re-administer an English language proficiency assessment.


Each exchange organization must verify that the foreign exchange student will have had his/her sixteenth birthday prior to May 1 of the enrollment year.

## GOOD STANDING

The exchange organization and its local representative must be in “Good Standing” with the West Ada School District. The District reserves the right to deny approval based on information provided throughout the year by building designees. Any organization or organization representative deemed to be “Not in Good Standing” by the Region Directors will be notified and not allowed to place students in the West Ada School District for a “Probationary” period of not less than one year. The building designee will not approve students from exchange organizations deemed “Not in Good Standing”. Reasons for revocation of “Good Standing” include, but are not limited to:

- Falsification of records
- Documented difficulties with West Ada staff
- Submitting applications of students that have graduated in their home country
- Not consistently monitoring foreign exchange students and host families
- Misrepresentation of information provided to the school
- The Foreign Exchange student has not had his/her sixteenth birthday prior to May 1 of the enrollment year.
- The Foreign Exchange student is not fluent in academic English.

## REQUIRED TIMELINES

All requests for placement must be submitted in writing to the building designee according to the required timelines.  The building designee will respond to all requests.


### October
Exchange organizations will be reviewed each October by the Region Directors. A list of exchange organizations deemed “Not in Good Standing” will be provided to each high school in November.


### February 1
The first date that placement requests and Letters of Intent will be accepted for the following school year.


### May 1
The deadline for the application packet of student information to the host school.  After May 1, applications will not be accepted.
