---
created: 1992-05-11
updated: 2023-07-10
reviewed: 2023-07-10
legal: Code of Idaho 33-205, 33-1224, 33-512
title: Discipline Procedure
code: 0502.11
---

## Rename policy Student Discipline

## INTRODUCTORY STATEMENT

Since appropriate behavior is essential in the establishment of a positive learning environment for students, each school in West Ada School District shall prepare a written statement of school rules and procedures regarding the maintenance of orderly student conduct. These procedures shall be clearly communicated to parents and students on an annual basis in the Student Handbook. A copy of the Elementary, Middle and High School Handbooks will be maintained on the districts website.

Established school procedures must be in compliance with this policy as established by West Ada School District board of trustees. It will be the responsibility of the principal to inform staff members regarding these regulations.

## CORPORAL PUNISHMENT

In accordance with Idaho Code 33-1224, corporal punishment is prohibited in West Ada Schools.

## RESTRAINT AND SECLUSION

**Guidelines for the use and prohibitions for use of restraint and seclusion**
In accordance with Idaho Code 33-1224, restraint and seclusion shall not be used as forms of discipline or methods of classroom governance. Chemical restraint shall not be used for any purpose. Physical or mechanical restraint or seclusion may be deployed only in circumstances where a pupil's conduct has placed themselves, employees, or any other individual in imminent danger of serious bodily harm.

**Restraint or Seclusion Documentation and Reporting Requirements Documentation**
Incidents of restraint and seclusion will be carefully documented after the incident with an Incident Report Form. Data must be collected, noting the following: antecedent, behavior, consequence, duration and location of seclusion (if applicable), type of restraint used (if applicable), date and time of incident, and staff who was working with the student and other observers.

**Reporting**
Following incidents of restraint and seclusion, the supervising teacher will ensure that the Incident Report form is completed as soon as possible after the restraint and/or seclusion period is over and sent to the parents within 24 hours. A copy of the report will be provided to the building administrator and special education supervisor at the same time. All use of restraint and seclusion must be tracked in the incident reporting section of the District's Student Information System.

**Review of Restraint or Seclusion Practices**
The District's restraint and seclusion practices and data will be reviewed annually.

The Board directs the Superintendent to establish procedures consistent with this policy related to restraint and seclusion.

## MAINTENANCE OF ORDERLY STUDENT CONDUCT

Students on any premises or at any school-sponsored activity, regardless of location, are expected to conduct themselves appropriately, including but not limited to: obey District officials, protect property, maintain order and decorum and avoid fighting.

Principals are directed to establish reasonable rules and regulations regarding appropriate student behavior in school and at school activities. Disciplinary action for violation of this policy may involve up to and including suspension and/or expulsion.

## Definition:

On any school premises or at any school-sponsored activity, regardless of location: shall include, but not be limited to buildings, facilities, and grounds on the school campus, school buses, school parking areas; and the location of any school-sponsored activity. This includes instances in which the conduct occurs off the school premises but impacts a school related activity. - **Corporal Punishment**: means knowingly and purposely inflicting physical pain on a pupil as a disciplinary measure.

- **Physical Escort**: means a temporary touching or holding of the hand, wrist, arm, shoulder, or back for the purpose of inducing a student who is acting out to walk to a safe location.
- **Restraint**: means physical, mechanical, or chemical forms of restriction, which are defined as follows:
- **Physical Restraint**: means a personal restriction that immobilizes or reduces the ability of a student to move their torso, arms, legs, or head freely. This term does not include a physical escort.
- **Mechanical Restraint**: means the use of any device or equipment to restrict a student's freedom of movement. This term does not include devices implemented by trained school personnel or utilized by a student that has been prescribed by an appropriate medical-related services professional and are used for the specific and approved purposes for which such devices were designed, such as:
    - Adaptive devices or mechanical supports, when used to achieve proper body position, balance, or alignment to allow greater freedom of mobility than would be possible without the use of suchdevices or mechanical supports;
    - Vehicle safety restraints, when used as intended during the transport of a student in a moving vehicle;
    - Restraints for medical immobilization; or
    - Orthopedically prescribed devices that permit a student to participate in activities without risk of harm.
- **Chemical Restraint**: means the use of drugs or medication to control behavior. This term does not include drugs or medication prescribed by and administered in accordance with the directions of a qualified health professional.
- **Seclusion**: means the involuntary confinement of a student alone in a room or area from which the student is physically prevented from leaving. This term does not include a timeout, which is a behavior management technique that is part of an approved program, which involves the monitored separation of the student in a nonlocked setting, and is implemented for the purpose of calming.

## CHEATING

Cheating in any form or manner is unacceptable. Every incident of cheating will be investigated by the teacher/designee and an administrator. The offending student will redo an assignment or assessment similar to the one on which they cheated. This assignment or assessment must be completed outside of instructional time. If the student is unwilling or unable to complete the assignment or assessment outside of instructional time, the student will receive a zero on the assignment or assessment. The offending student will also be assigned disciplinary consequences deemed appropriate by the administrator.

In addition, Concurrent Credit students are expected to adhere to the rules and regulations as set forth in the universities’ Student Code of Conduct.

## DETENTION OF PUPILS

When students are kept after school to make up work missed by absence, or to clarify individual misunderstandings and difficulties, this should be done with the knowledge and consent of the parents. The right of parents to have their children home at regular times must be respected.

No teacher should detain bus students after school without permission of the principal and cooperation of the parents.

When students are assigned lunch detention or assigned to a designated location to complete missing work, they will be afforded the opportunity to eat lunch and will be supervised by a staff member(s).

## DUE PROCESS
The student has the right to due process in the event he/she is accused of violating a policy, regulation, or rule established by the school district, administration, or classroom teacher. (Refer to “Due Process for Students” as outlined in the Student Handbook.)

## TEACHER / STAFF RESPONSIBILITIES

- Teachers and staff are primarily responsible for the maintenance of proper student behavior both within and outside of the classroom setting during the school day. Every reasonable effort should be made by teachers/staff to solve discipline problems before they are referred to the principal/designee.

- Teachers and Administrators are charged with the responsibility of establishing and communicating to students and parents' clear expectations for proper behavior and procedures/consequences to be followed for inappropriate behavior.

- A positive and pro-active approach to the maintenance of proper student conduct will be established. In dealing with students, staff will model respect, dignity and self-control.

- When the behavior of any pupil is unacceptable, the following procedure should be followed:

### Tier One
Step 1: Teacher conferences with student and documents student behavior.
Step 2: Teacher documents student behaviors and determines appropriate intervention strategies. Teacher contacts parents and possibly the counselor and administration.

(Behavioral interventions may begin on Step 1 or Step 2)

### Tier Two:
Step 3:

1. Teacher refers student to the administration on a referral form and Parents are contacted. This indicates that the student has not responded to Tier One interventions in the classroom.
1. Referrals will result in a conference with the student/parent and assignment of a consequence determined by the administration. A review of Tier One interventions and alternate strategies may be considered by the administration and the teacher.
1. For severe deviant behavior, incorrigibility, or repeated violations, the student may be temporarily suspended from school for a period of one to five (1-5) days by the Principal or certified designee. An informal hearing will be afforded parents/guardian before suspending, according to Idaho Code 33-205. This may take place by a telephone or school conference.
1. Continued referrals may result in progression to Tier Three

Tier Three:
When the student does not respond to interventions, alternative placement or recommendation for expulsion will be considered. A Discipline Log will be maintained on the district referral form by each principal. Out-of-school suspensions will be reported to the Superintendent or Designee.

## EXPULSION

In the instance that a pupil is allegedly habitually truant, incorrigible, continuously disruptive, or is in violation of the “Zero Tolerance” provisions:

1. The principal, building administrator, and/or superintendent have authority to temporarily suspend a pupil of the school district until a final determination is made by the board of trustees.
1. The principal may recommend student expulsion to the superintendent or designee. The superintendent or designee may recommend to the Board of Trustees a time period for pupil expulsion up to one year.
1. During the period of suspension from school, the District Discipline and Attendance Committee, made up of three panelists (generally administrators/counselors), who shall be the hearing panel, a Director of Instruction who shall act as the hearing officer, and a recorder shall schedule an informal hearing to determine if the pupil should be re-admitted or expelled. The student and his/her parents/guardian shall have the right to:
    1. Notice of the allegations against the student
    1. Notice of the time and place when the parent/guardian/student may appear to contest the denial of the right to attend
    1. A reasonable period of time to prepare
    1. Be represented by counsel
    1. Produce witnesses and submit evidence on the student’s behalf
    1. Ask questions of the adult witnesses
1. The District Discipline and Attendance Committee may uphold the recommendation of the principal to expel the student or may recommend the conditional return of the student to school upon compliance with a specific plan. Such a plan may include deferment of the expulsion to allow readmission if returning the student is determined to be consistent with the safety of the pupil and the well being of the school and the district as a whole.
1. The recommendation for expulsion shall be referred to the board of trustees for approval, absent the parent/guardian/ or adult student appealing that decision to the board of trustees, an appeal must be made in writing within five (5) days of the committee’s decision.
1. Expelled pupils will not be permitted to return to the home school or any other district school, or attend any district-sanctioned event until the end of the expulsion period, and after a re-entry plan has been signed by the parents/guardian and pupil and has been approved by the building administrator.

West Ada School District, adheres to a Zero Tolerance Policy. The following actions are prohibited on school property; which is defined as all buildings, facilities, property owned or leased by the district, school buses, and other school vehicles, and the location of any school sponsored activity or function including dual-enrollment settings, that include but are not limited to, Meridian Night School, Treasure Valley Math and Science, and the Dehryl Dennis Center:

## WEAPONS
Students are forbidden to knowingly and/or voluntarily possess, handle, transmit, or use any instrument that can be used as a weapon or is a facsimile of a weapon. Any object which could be used to injure another person and which has no school-related purpose will be considered a weapon for purposes of this policy. The following are examples of instruments ordinarily or generally considered weapons: knives of all types, guns, lead pipes, chains, chuck-sticks, throwing stars, darts, metal knuckles, black-jacks, fireworks, explosives, mace or other chemicals. Possession, use, or attempt to use anything as a weapon will result in the student being referred to the District Discipline and Attendance Committee.

## EXPLOSIVE DEVICES
Placing or detonating an explosive device, making verbal threats, including those made by telephone, electronically transmitted or written threats of explosive devices will be investigated by school administrators and the school resource officer. Any student involved in these threats will be referred to the District Discipline and Attendance Committee.

## VERBAL OR WRITTEN THREATS
Verbal threats, including those made by telephone, electronically transmitted or written threats of any type against school or individual(s) will be investigated by school administrators and the school resource officer. Any student involved in these threats may be referred to the District Discipline and Attendance Committee.

## ARSON
The malicious burning of or attempt to burn, self, another individual, or school property may result in referral to the District Discipline and Attendance Committee.

## ZERO TOLERANCE
Zero tolerance will be in effect while on the property of a public or private school or in those portions of any building, stadium or other structure on school grounds which were, at the time of the violation, being used for an activity sponsored by or through such a school, and/or while riding school provided transportation and/or participating in a school sponsored extracurricular or academic activity off school grounds.

## ALCOHOL/CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE DISTRIBUTION OR SALE
Students are forbidden to distribute or intend to distribute/sell drugs/alcohol or controlled substances, or any substance available with or without a prescription, that can be used in a manner detrimental to one’s health and in excess of recommended dosage to other students or persons on or near district property during school hours or at a school sponsored event, including dual-enrolled programs as defined in the policy. It shall be presumed that a student in possession of these substances in amounts in excess of that for personal one-time use, or such amount of a controlled substance in conjunction with possession of any drug paraphernalia including but not limited to scales, pipes, and/or plastic bags has the intent to sell or deliver such controlled substances  (See Drug and Alcohol Policy 502.5)

Students in violation of any zero tolerance policies may be recommended for expulsion and referred to the appropriate authorities. The duration of expulsion may be for the remainder of the school year; or, if occurring within the last twenty (20) days of a semester, the student may also be expelled for the following semester.

West Ada School District will comply with the Federal Gun-Free Schools Act as mandated, which requires the expulsion from school of any student who brings a firearm to school. The expulsion is for not less than one calendar year.

West Ada School District will not admit a student who has been expelled from another district until that student has completed the expulsion period. The timing should be based on written confirmation from the district that initially expelled the student.

**Supporting Documents**,P502_11 ADDENDUM,
