---
created: 2008-03-18
updated: 2023-08-14
reviewed: 2023-08-14
legal: Idaho Code; Sections:,20-516, 37-2701, 37-2732,Drug Free Schools and Community Act of,1988 – PL 100-690 and all subsequent amendments; I-D-A-P-A-08-02-03-160 Safe,Environment and Discipline,
title: Alcohol, Drug, & Tobacco
code: 0502.50
---

#  

## PHILOSOPHY:

The Board of Trustees recognizes that drug, alcohol, and tobacco/nicotine use is detrimental to a state of well-being and undermines the aim of education, which is to enable individuals to develop to their full potential. The Board of Trustees also recognizes that student use of chemical substances is a serious problem of utmost concern in our society. We support prevention, early intervention, and appropriate referral. Using the definitions outlined in this policy, our intent is to identify and document any behavior/appearance that would be considered problematic to the student's success. We will be involved in disciplinary action when needed.

The West Ada School District seeks to ensure the highest standards of learning in the classroom and recognizes that use of chemical substances—including alcohol, tobacco/nicotine/e-cigarettes, controlled substances and other substances as defined in this policy can create educational, economic and legal problems. As a district, we recognize the need for students to take an approved medication with a valid prescription from an Idaho licensed physician with the intent for it to be only used by those to whom it is prescribed. In all other cases and as defined in this policy, West Ada School District students are prohibited from possessing, using, consuming, displaying, promoting or selling any drugs, alcohol, tobacco products, tobacco-related devices, or imitation tobacco products at any time on school property or at any off-campus, school-sponsored event. It is also unlawful for any student to manufacture or deliver, deliver or possess with intent to manufacture or deliver, a controlled substance. Law enforcement works closely with school personnel and has authority to prosecute any student who breaks the law.

## DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS AND INTERVENTIONS:

Students who violate this policy will be obligated to fulfill the requirements outlined on the West Ada School District’s current policy violation form. The requirements for students who violate this policy will be reviewed annually by the district’s drug education coordinator and drug prevention counselors. Changes to the violation requirements will only be made by a committee with three or more of the following personnel represented: district drug education coordinator, drug prevention counselor, secondary building administrator and Superintendent or Desginee.

## STUDENT ACTIVITIES:

From the first day to the last day that a team meets with its coach or advisor, the use, possession, distribution, or sale of alcohol, drugs, tobacco or other controlled substances any time during all extracurricular activity seasons is forbidden. If a student commits a violation of this policy during the school day or at a school sponsored event or is documented or cited by law enforcement for use, possession, or distribution of alcohol, drugs, tobacco/nicotine, or other controlled substances during his/her activity season they will be obligate to fulfill the requirements outlined in the West Ada School District’s current activities policy violation form.

## DEFINITIONS:

- **Use**: Whenever a student has consumed, taken, or is under the influence of alcohol, drugs, or tobacco/e- cigarettes products on or near district property (see definition), or is displaying behavior that creates a reasonable suspicion that he or she may be illegally under the influence of alcohol, drugs, or tobacco/nicotine use any time during school hours or at a school sponsored activity or event. This includes district provided transportation to or from school or a district sponsored activity.
- **Possession/securing or attempting to secure or purchase alcohol, drugs, or tobacco/nicotine**: To have alcohol, drugs, or tobacco/nicotine, e-cigarettes, drug paraphernalia, on your person or within an area of your control including but not limited to car, locker, books, and clothes on or near district property at any time or at a school sponsored activity, or during participation in a dual enrolled program.
- **Distribution and or sale**: To deliver, or intend to deliver, a controlled and/or illegal substance. The attempted transfer from one person to another of a controlled and/or illegal substance not intended or prescribed for the receiving person.
- **Knowingly Present**: Student was present or in attendance at a gathering of students during which one or more attendees (other than the student at issue) were involved in alcohol, drug, and/or tobacco/nicotine/e- cigarettes/use/possession/distribution as defined in the definition and the student knew or reasonably should have known that such drug use was occurring.
- **Controlled Substance/Drug**: May include, but not limited to, any illegal substance, abused substance, any substance which is intended to alter mood, and any medication not prescribed by a physician for the student in possession of the medication and/or any substance that falls under the definitions found in State Statute 37-2701. Also included are substances that can be obtained with or without a prescription that, when used improperly or outside the recommended guidelines, can be detrimental to one’s health. This may include, but is not limited to inhalants, over-the-counter medication, e-cigarettes, and other nicotine delivery devices, or performance enhancing substances.
- **Alcohol**: Any product containing alcohol as defined by any reasonable definition of the word.
- **Tobacco**: Any type of nicotine including, but not limited to, cigarettes, e-cigarettes, smokeless tobacco, nicotine products or paraphernalia.
- **Inhalant**: A medicinal preparation for inhaling material producing vapor. To include, but not limited to e- cigarette in any form or paraphernalia.
- **Marijuana**: All parts of the plant of the genus Cannabis, regardless of species, and whether growing or not; the seeds thereof; the resin extracted from any part of such plant; and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of such plant, its seeds or resin. The West Ada School District does not allow any cannabis product (that is intended for physical consumption) or (regardless of intent), including CBD products, on school grounds or at school related events.
- **Activities**: Any school-sponsored event that takes place outside of the regular school day such as a school dance and/or an activity through which a school letter may be earned, i.e. all sports, band, choir, dance team, debate, drama, school clubs, sports, etc. Students who come under the disciplinary procedures for alcohol, drugs, or tobacco/nicotine/e-cigarettes are limited in practice time or participation in school activities outside of the regular class day according to grade level, category and number of offenses. If the event to be missed is counted as part of the academic grade, (band, choir, and debate) the student will be given an alternative activity to earn the grade.
- **Under the influence**: Any student judged to be under the influence of alcohol or other controlled substance (as defined above) by a school administrator or designee may be subjected to procedures to seek evaluation by law enforcement personnel. The law enforcement evaluation may result in the transfer of school custodial responsibility to that of law enforcement in accordance with Section 20-516, Idaho Code. Any student judged to be under the influence, regardless of any previous voluntary disclosure, will be deemed to be in violation of this policy and Section 37-2732, Idaho Code.
- **Voluntary Disclosure**: A student who voluntarily discloses use of alcohol, drugs, or tobacco/e-cigarettes, and/or other controlled substances (as defined in this policy) during group or individual counseling sessions, or during a drug/alcohol assessment appointment at the school or in school associated programs will not be subject to administrative or law enforcement procedures unless the student is in violation of school policy at the time of the disclosure.
