---
created: 2009-01-13
updated: 2011-06-21
reviewed: 2011-06-21
title: Student Tours/Excursions/Overnight Trips
code: "0503.70"
---

The following educational goals and objectives are an integral part of the "Statement of Philosophy" of the board of trustees and administration.

- Strive to meet individual needs of students.
- Prepare students mentally, emotionally and physically to meet the challenges for their world.
- Give each student the tools he/she needs to succeed in future vocational and academic endeavors.
- Develop in each student good citizenship, patriotism, respect for others and their beliefs, temperance and good health habits.

Field trips, competitive events and cultural excursions should be consistent with the educational goals and objectives of the district. Trips are not compulsory; when used in correlation with a particular teaching unit, they should be planned to enrich the program.

The financial impact of the total school community should be considered before starting any fundraising activities. All fundraising activities must be in compliance with Policy Code No. 1002.20 (Fund Raising Activities).

These same activities should be scheduled as much as possible during after-school hours and on non-school hours such as weekends and spring break so that absence from other instructional programs is kept to a minimum.

Staff members shall not accompany commercially sponsored tours if their absence requires the school district to place the instructional programs in the hands of a substitute teacher.

GUIDELINES:
- The initial request for the activity must be made to the building principal for review a minimum of two (2) months prior to expected departure prior to making any commitment to the students.
- The maximum number of school days missed shall be two (2) consecutive days, up to a maximum of five (5) days per semester.
- Every effort must be made to ensure that no student is excluded because of inability to meet financial requirements. The cost to the student/parent/school shall not exceed $400 per student per trip including fund raising. The $400 can be out-of-pocket or can be defrayed through approved fundraising activities.
- Parental/guardian written permission must be obtained prior to going on the trip.
- Teachers must take roll before leaving the school, during the trip, and before leaving the destination.
- All groups must be adequately supervised with a minimum of one (1) adult per l0 (ten) students. Groups wit both male and female participants must have supervision of at least one (1) male and one (1) female adult.
- The activity and daily itinerary shall be approved by the building principal.
- If approved at the building level, a copy of the approval form and itinerary shall be given to the appropriate district director.
- Assurance of adequate liability insurance to protect students, parents, school personnel and board members must be given and approved by a school attorney.
- If required, the activity must have district and state sanctioning.
- Elementary and middle school students are not authorized, without board approval, to participate in overnight trips.

EXCEPTIONS to the above guidelines will be considered:

- When a student or an activity group qualifies for national competition by:

    - Progressing through a series of competitions that culminate in the national competition (i.e. State to Regional to National).

    OR

    - When a trip exceeds two (2) school days or $400 of student out-of pocket and fundraising expenses, approval must be obtained from the board of trustees at least three (3) months in advance of the expected departure.
    - Non-school related national competitions will follow under the Attendance Policies No. 501.10 AND 501.30.

