---
created: 1997-09-08
updated: 2023-06-12
reviewed: 2023-06-12
legal: Code of Idaho,33-512(4), 33-6001, IDELR 83, 84,(Office of Civil Rights, Mar. 31, 1994),
title: Do Not Resuscitate (DNR)
---

# 0504.90 

The Board of Trustees recognizes and affirms the fundamental rights and responsibilities of parents/legal guardians in the education, decision making and upbringing of their children. As a result, and in accordance with State Statute 33-6001, parent(s)/legal guardian(s) will be notified regarding known changes in their student's mental, emotional, or physical health or well-being. When such changes are brought to the attention of school personnel, the student will be referred to the appropriate staff member who is properly trained to address the matter or the building administration. Building staff will encourage the student to discuss issues related to the student's well-being with the student's parent or legal guardian and, if necessary, to facilitate discussion of the issues with the parent or legal guardian.

At the start of the school year, the District will notify parents/legal guardians of health services offered or made available through the school or by private organizations, including preventative health and wellness services, screenings, medication administration, first aid and emergency care, and appropriate management of all health conditions with parental consent. Parental consent to any health or wellness service does not waive the parent/legal guardian's right to access their child's educational or associated health records or to be notified about their child's health status or monitoring.

Parents/legal guardians, shall be able to access their child's education and health records created, maintained, or used by the District unless such documentation relates to physical abuse, abandonment, or neglect by the parent or legal guardian. Such records shall be provided by the school or District to the parent/legal guardian within five (5) school- days after the request to access such records is made.

The Board of Trustees directs the Superintendent to establish guidelines and forms consistent with this policy.
