---
created: 2006-05-09
updated: 2021-02-10
reviewed: 2021-02-10
legal: Code of Idaho,Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act of 2010,
references: Additional References:,WASD Policy 602.8 K-12 Guidance Counseling Programs,WASD Policy 602.4 Health Education
title: Wellness
---

# 0504.70 

The board recognizes that childhood wellness is essential for academic success. Research indicates that becoming physically active and maintaining a regular physical activity program and access to nutritious foods reduces the risk of obesity and other associated diseases.

West Ada School District and the Board of Trustees will ensure that a comprehensive district-wide wellness policy is implemented that includes goals for nutrition, health (physical, social, and mental/emotional), and physical fitness, as well as nutrition promotion, integrated within the sequential, comprehensive health education curriculum, and coordinated with the district’s School Nutrition Services department.

It is the policy of the board to:

1. Provide students access to nutritious food choices
    1. Meet the standards required in Healthy, Hunger-Free Act of 2010
        1. Smart Snacks in Schools guidelines
        1. National School Lunch and Breakfast programs
    1. Classroom snacks
        1. Classroom snacks served during the school day or in after-school care/enrichment programs will make a positive contribution to student diets and health, with an emphasis on fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and/or low sugar items as the primary snacks and water/milk as the primary beverage.
    1. Rewards
        1. Staff will not use foods or beverages as rewards for individual academic performance or good     behavior.
        1. Staff will limit whole class food rewards to two (2) per year.
    1. Celebrations
        1. Schools will limit celebrations (birthdays, holidays, etc) that involve food/beverages during the school day to no more than one party per class per month.
        1. At least ½ the food and beverages brought in for monthly celebrations must meet the Smart Snacks in Schools guidelines.
    1. Food Fundraisers
        1. To support student health and school nutrition-education efforts, school fundraising activities will         include alternatives to food fundraisers throughout each school year.
        1. Schools will encourage fundraising activities that promote physical activity.
        1. Daily/weekly club/activity food fundraisers must meet the Smart Snacks in Schools guidelines.
        1. Each school will be allowed to have ten (10) food fundraisers per year that are exempt from the         Smart Snacks in Schools guidelines (each exempt food fundraiser may not be longer than four (4)         consecutive days of duration).
        1. The guidelines do not apply to foods intended to be consumed outside of school.
1. Provide opportunities for physical activity and developmentally appropriate exercise
    1. Physical Activity
        1. Schools will, at a minimum, meet state/district physical education standards and physical education         requirements.
        1. Provide time at the elementary level for supervised recess.
        1. Provide extra-curricular activities that enable all students to select from a variety of sports and other activities.
1. Provide nutrition education/promotion
    1. Nutrition Education/Promotion
        1. Schools will teach state health standards
        1. Nutrition education will be provided at least once in grade level bands K-2, 3-5, 6-8, 9-12
        1. Measurable goals of nutrition promotion include, but are not limited to, becoming a Team         Nutrition school, school gardens, and advertising healthy foods and beverages.
    1. Other School Based Wellness Activities
        1. Measurable goals include, but are not limited to, staff wellness programs, CPR/first aid certified         staff, walking clubs, and extra-curricular activities.
    1. Policy for Food and Beverage Marketing
        1. Schools will limit food and beverage marketing during the school day to the promotion of foods         and beverages that meet competitive food standards and/or Smart Snack requirements.
        1. Future updates to/or replacement of signs, scoreboards, advertising, and other sports equipment         will meet competitive food standards and/or the Smart Snacks requirements.
1. Encourage the development and implementation of wellness activities and policy for and by students, families, district employees, and community members.
    1. Evaluation of Wellness Policy and Implementation
        1. The district shall take a proactive effort to both educate and encourage students to make         nutritious food choices and will inform/update the public about the content, implementation, and         assessment of the wellness policy.
        1. The superintendent or designee will establish measures to evaluate school compliance with the         policy, progress toward wellness policy goals, comparison to model wellness policies, and         implementation of the wellness policy and activities every three years (minimum).
        1. The superintendent or designee shall ensure that a variety of healthy food choices is available         whenever food is sold at district-sponsored events.
        1. The wellness policy content and implementation will be available to the public on the district         website.
    1. The following stakeholders will be invited to participate on the district wellness team: parents, students,     school food service staff, physical education teachers, school health professionals, the school board, and     school administrators.
