---
created: 2006-05-09
updated: 2021-08-10
reviewed: 2021-08-10
title: Self Transportation by Students
code: 0504.40
---


## GENERAL
Automobiles, cycles, scooters or any motorized vehicles shall only be used by properly licensed students as a means of transportation to and from school facilities except when authorized for use as detailed in the section below.

- The use of any motorized vehicle on school grounds for recreational purposes (i.e. joy riding, racing, etc.) is strictly prohibited.
- The use of skateboards is prohibited on all school grounds, with the exception of to and from school.
- West Ada School District reserves the right to prohibit student vehicles from being parked on school grounds.
- When students use a motorized vehicle for transportation to and from school, they are required to purchase and display a valid vehicle parking permit from their home school and park their vehicle in the school lot in designated areas.
- Middle school students must receive permission from building principal prior to being allowed to drive to school.

## HIGH SCHOOL
Licensed and insured high school students enrolled in specialized classes offered at select locations may drive private vehicles between schools and class locations. Students must meet the following conditions:
- A copy of the student’s completed self-transportation form with express written permission from their parent/guardian must be on file with the home school prior to use of the vehicle. The parent/guardian written permission shall include an attestation that the student holds a driver’s license in good standing and that proper insurance is in place for the driver and vehicle.
- Student drivers may transport student passengers when parents/guardians of both the driver and the passenger have given permission in writing.
