---
created: 2022-09-26
reviewed: 2022-09-26

---

# 1103.1 Employee Use of Social Media

Pursuant to the Code of Ethics for Idaho Professional Educators, individuals shall maintain a professional relationship
with all students both inside and outside of the classroom. The same standards will apply to the District’s classified
employees. Informal or social involvement with students, including communications via social media, text, and other
forms of communication, can violate this principle. Accordingly, non-school related engagement is therefore
prohibited. This includes but is not limited to:



- Listing current students as “friends” on social media platforms wherein personal information is shared or
available for review

- Contacting students through electronic means other than the District’s email and telephone systems
Including, but not limited, coaches contacting a team member/members without including all team
members in the communication

- Sharing private cell phone or home phone numbers with students without prior approval from supervisor or
school administrator

- Inappropriate contact of any kind with any minor or any student regardless of age using electronic media

Failure to follow this policy may lead to employment consequences up to and including a possible termination.


- Employees shall not post confidential or proprietary information about the District, West Ada School District
employees, students, or agents to personal social media profiles. If a document is exempt from production under the

- Idaho Public Writings Laws, they shall not be posted on social media. All West Ada School District employees shall
adhere to applicable privacy and confidentiality policies adopted by the District or as approved by state or federal
law, rule or regulation

Absent written authority of the parent or guardian of a minor, or the authority of an adult or emancipated student,
West Ada School District employees shall not share students’ names, images, or data relating to students absent
written authority.


