---
created: 2005-04-26
updated: 2011-01-11
reviewed: 2011-01-11
title: Gifts, Grants, Donations, and Bequests
code: 0802.13
---

#  

It is the intent of the board of trustees to encourage individuals, companies, charitable organizations, foundations and community groups to actively support the students of the district and their programs. Such support may come in the form of money, personal services, real or personal property and/or any combination of the aforementioned. Companies wishing to provide support to the district in exchange for acknowledgement or advertising consideration may only do so with the approval of the board of trustees; however, booster and extracurricular program support acknowledgement in and on the districts’ fields, stadiums, fencing, scoreboards and in printed programs require approval of the building principal.

Any gift, donation or bequest which exceeds a fair market value of $15,000 must have board approval. Such donation or support, upon formal transfer to the district, shall become the property of West Ada School District. Every effort will be made to insure that a gift or donation designated for a specific district program or purpose will be utilized as the donor desires. Any gift, etc., less than a fair market value of $15,000 shall be governed by the administrative regulations of the superintendent and by any applicable state and federal laws.

**Acknowledgement of the donor will be made in an appropriate fashion by the board of trustees. A gift or donation will not be accepted if an acknowledgement restriction or condition is placed on it by the donor.**

The board of trustees shall insure that all gifts, grants, donations and bequests meet or exceed the district’s standards, philosophy and operating parameters.

Equipment/supplies acquired through a grant is the property of the school district. If a teacher transfers buildings or leaves the district, the grant award is to remain at the building the teacher was assigned to at the time of procurement; unless agreed upon otherwise by both principals.

Equipment not being used by the grantee may be reassigned, at the discretion of the building administration, to another staff member within the building.

