---
created: 2008-06-17
updated: 2011-04-12
reviewed: 2011-04-12
title: 0802.70 Plant Facility Fund
code: "0802.70"
---

All employees will be paid on or before the 25th day of each month.

The payroll department is responsible for preparing and distributing all payrolls.

All certified staff will be paid based upon the teacher negotiated agreement; all classified staff will be paid based upon the board approved salary schedules. Any exceptions must be approved by the superintendent.

## Direct Deposit

- All employees employed prior to July 1, 2011, and paid by JSD No. 2, receiving his/her pay by Direct Deposit, shall continue to participate in Direct Deposit.

- All employees employed prior to July 1, 2011, and paid by JSD No. 2 who are receiving his/her pay by check, shall be required to participate in Direct Deposit.

- All employees hired on or after July 1, 2011, shall be required to participate in Direct Deposit

- An employee may be exempted from participating in Direct Deposit if he/she does not have an account at an eligible financial institution, and further provides evidence that he/she cannot obtain an account at an eligible financial institution. An exemption may only be granted for the reason state above (i.e., unable to acquire an account at a financial institution) or other specific situation that the Human Resources Director may deem to be an extreme hardship. An employee desiring to request an exemption from the Direct Deposit requirement shall do so by completing a Direct Deposit Exemption Request Form. For those employees who are granted an exemption, the Human Resources Director may secure and offer other payment methods as options, other than a paper check, when such options may become available.

## Payroll Changes

The payroll department will process all changes received by the 8th of each month.

- All changes in insurance coverage which affect the cafeteria plans will be submitted to payroll by the Human Resources department.

- All account code changes must be submitted to payroll by the budget and finance department.

## New Hires

- New hire worksheets will be completed by the Human Resources department and forwarded to payroll
as soon as possible. Attached to the new hire sheet will be:

    - Medical, dental and life insurance forms or written notification that insurance is declined at this     time.
    - Classified Employee Probation Form
    - W-4
    - Direct deposit authorization
    - PERSI enrollment
    - Short Term Disability
    - Optional insurance application(s)
    - Cafeteria plan paperwork
    - I-9 form
    - E-mail Electronic Communications Acknowledgement Form
    - Notification of Drug & Alcohol Policy
    - Classified staff – acknowledgement of West Ada School District Classified Employee Handbook
    - Food Service Workers – job requirements

## Terminations

- All termination paperwork will be submitted to payroll by the Human Resources department. The information must be complete, including the last day worked, and all pertinent time sheets.

- If an employee submits a written request to receive his/her final paycheck at termination, the request will be honored within 48 hours of payroll’s receipt of termination paperwork. Otherwise, the employee will receive his/her final paycheck in the next payroll run.

## Personal Changes

- The following changes can be made by the employee contacting the Human Resources Director or designee:

    - Name (Social Security Card with correct name.)
    - Address
    - W-4
    - Direct deposit
    - Optional insurance, i.e. life, cancer and disability coverage etc.
    - Tax sheltered annuities (TSA) and PERSI Choice 401K.

- All changes will be submitted in writing.

- All changes must be received by the 8th day of the month in order to guarantee that the change can be accomplished in the current month.

## Garnishments

- Any garnishment served to the district for any employee will be processed in the current payroll.

- The payroll department will attempt to contact the individual employee before the check is distributed.

- No garnishment will be reversed unless confirmed in writing by the originating agency.

