---
created: 2005-04-26
updated: 2020-12-08
reviewed: 2020-12-08
legal: Code of Idaho,33-601(4), 33-402, 55-101, 55-102
title: Disposition of Surplus Real and Personal Property
code: 0803.20
---


When real or personal property becomes unusable, obsolete or no longer needed, the Superintendent or designee
shall identify these items to the board of trustees, with a recommendation that the real or personal property be sold
or disposed of by one of the methods prescribed by Idaho Code and administrative regulations.

Definitions

Real Property or real estate including:


- Lands, possessory rights to land, ditch and water rights, and mining claims, both lode and placer.
- That which is affixed to land.
- That which is appurtenant to land.

Personal Property: Every kind of property that is not real is personal

Disposal Process


- Real property: Prior to any sale, the Superintendent or designee shall have the real property appraised and
entered in the records of the board of trustees. The real property may be sold at public auction or by sealed
bids to the highest bidder after publishing twice the notice of the time and conditions of the sale. The board of
trustees reserves the right to accept the highest bid or reject any or all bids on any given item. After two
unsuccessful attempts to sell real property, the board of trustees may proceed under its own direction to sell
the property for the highest price the market will bear. Every effort shall be made to ensure that real property
shall be sold for its appraised value.


- Personal property valued at $1,000 or more: Prior to any sale, the Superintendent or designee shall have the
personal property appraised and entered in the records of the board of trustees. The personal property may be
sold at public auction or by sealed bids to the highest bidder after publishing twice the notice of the time and
conditions of the sale. The board of trustees reserves the right to accept the highest bid or reject any or all bids
on any given item. After two unsuccessful attempts to sell the personal property, the board of trustees may
proceed under its own direction to sell the property for the highest price the market will bear.


- Personal property valued at more than $500 but less than $1,000: The board of trustees may sell personal
property with an estimated value of more than $500 but less than $1,000 by sealed bid or public auction after
publishing at least once notice of the time and conditions of the sale. The board of trustees reserves the right
to accept the highest bid or reject any or all bids on any given item. If no satisfactory bid is made or received,
the board of trustees may proceed under its own direction to sell and convey the property for the highest price
the market will bear. Appraisal of the property is not required.


- Personal property valued at less than $500: The assistant superintendent of operations is empowered by the
board of trustees to dispose of the property in the most cost-effective and expedient manner after providing
notification to the board of trustees.


No real property may be legally sold for less than the appraised value during the sealed bid or public auction
process. To be valid, appraisals must be completed within one (1) year of the disposal or sale of any property,
and a new appraisal must be conducted prior to each bid attempt. Unless otherwise provided herein, no school
property may be discarded without specific board approval. Unauthorized sales, gifts, transfers, or disposals of
school property are grounds for dismissal. Pursuant to the terms of Idaho Code 33-601(4)(b), real and personal
property may be exchanged for other like property (trade-ins).


Gifts or donations to school clubs, school organizations, individual schools, or to the school district are West
Ada School District property and are subject to the terms of this policy.

