---
created: 2005-04-26
updated: 2015-05-12
reviewed: 2015-05-12
legal: Code of Idaho 33-601
title: Sale and Disposal of Books, Equipment and Supplies
code: 0803.21
---

When district-owned books, equipment and supplies, with a current value of less than $500, become unusable,
obsolete, or no longer needed, the superintendent or designee shall identify these items to the board of trustees,
with a recommendation that they be sold or disposed according to the methods prescribed by Idaho Code, Section
33-601 and administrative regulations. With board approval, the superintendent or designee shall arrange for the
sale or disposal of said items.

Library books that have been weeded from a building’s collection (Policy 602.21) may be disposed of in the following
manner without specific board approval:

- Weeded books will be offered to teachers for use in a classroom library.
- Weeded books unclaimed by teachers will be offered free of charge to students.
- Weeded books unclaimed by teachers/students will be sent to a recycler.

Textbooks that are determined to be unusable, obsolete, or no longer needed may be disposed of in the following
manner without specific board approval:

- Building department chairs will compile lists of textbook designated for disposal and send to the appropriate
curriculum coordinator at the DSC.
- The Assistant Superintendent of Instruction will approve submitted lists of textbooks for disposal.
- Textbooks approved for disposal may be sold, repurposed and/or recycled.

The superintendent or designee shall provide due consideration to federal regulations when selling equipment for
which the federal government has a right to receive all or part of the proceeds. These procedures shall ensure a
reasonable amount of competition so as to result in the highest possible revenue.

