---
created: 2005-04-26
reviewed: 2005-04-26
title: Building and Safety Inspections
code: 0901.10
---


In the interest of students, personnel and the general public, West Ada School District shall provide its own safety inspection program and will cooperate with other appropriate public agencies properly authorized to conduct safety inspections of the district’s facilities. Authorized agencies include the State of Idaho Department of Labor and Industrials Services, Central District Health, the district’s insurance carriers, the Idaho State Department of Education, fire departments and duly authorized law enforcement agencies. Safety deficiencies cited by duly authorized safety inspectors will be promptly reported to the district superintendent upon receipt of written reports.

It shall be the duty of the superintendent in cooperation with the supervisor of maintenance and operations and the building principal to prepare a list of necessary repairs in order to keep the buildings in proper condition.

The district will conduct its own safety program to include at least:


- One district-wide building and grounds inspection by the supervisor of maintenance and operations shall be conducted each year.


- Each roof on each building shall be inspected by a qualified roof inspector each spring.


- Monthly fire and/or emergency drills shall be conducted by building principals and sent to the supervisor of maintenance and operations.


- A regular safety education program in each elementary classroom, grades K-5, and in each lab and shop classroom submitted to, approved by and supervised by the building principal.


- An annual in-service bus safety program for all district bus drivers. The district transportation supervisor is responsible for developing and administering an appropriate bus driver safety program. Said in-service program is to be completed prior to the beginning of the school year. All drivers, including substitute and part- time drivers, must complete the safety training program each year prior to serving as a bus driver.


- An annual safety in-service program, prior to the start of each school year, for all custodians. The custodial supervisor is responsible to plan and administer an appropriate in-service for employee and student safety.


- An annual safety in-service program for all school nutrition personnel. The school nutrition supervisor is responsible for planning and administering an appropriate in-service for employee and student safety.


- A requirement that all accidents resulting in injury to personnel be promptly reported to the central district office by appropriate supervisors. Each supervisor is responsible for preparing and submitting personnel accident reports to the central office. Building principals are responsible for preparing and submitting student, staff and visitor accident reports. Accident report forms will be distributed by the custodial supervisor.
