---
created: 2005-04-26
updated: 2018-05-22
reviewed: 2018-05-22
legal: Code of Idaho,33-506(1), 54-1903(8),67-2320, IDAPA 08.02.02.130
code: "0902.20"
title: 0902.20 Professional Service Contracts with Design Professionals, Construction Managers, and Professional Land Surveyors
kind: Policy
---

The Superintendent or designee shall develop procedures in accordance with Idaho Code 67-2320(2) for selection of architects, engineers, landscape architects, construction managers, and land surveyors for any district facilities projects for which the professional service fee is anticipated to exceed twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000).

In selecting architects, engineers, landscape architects, construction managers, and land surveyors for district facilities projects (new construction, remodels, paving, roofing, etc.) valued in excess of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000), district administration will follow the minimum guidelines set forth in Idaho Code 67- 2320(2). The highest ranked architect, engineer, landscape architect, construction manager, or land surveyor will be submitted to the Board for approval. District administration will negotiate with the approved architect, engineer, landscape architect, construction manager, or land surveyor and submit the contracts to the Board for approval. In accordance with Idaho Code 67-2320(2)(h) and the aforementioned selection and approval process, district administration may also create a list of preapproved architects, engineers, landscape architects, construction managers, or land surveyors for a period not to exceed five (5) years. For any district facilities project, district administration may select and negotiate with any preapproved provider from these lists. Following negotiations, district administration will submit all contracts to the Board for approval.

The Superintendent or designee shall develop guidelines in accordance with Idaho Code 67-2320 (3) for selection of architects, engineers, landscape architects, construction managers, and land surveyors for any district facilities projects for which the professional service fee is anticipated to be less than twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000).

For district facilities projects (new construction, remodels, paving, roofing, etc.) for which the fee is anticipated to be less than the total sum of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000), district administration will use developed guidelines to rank architects, engineers, landscape architects, construction managers, and land surveyors based demonstrated competence and qualifications. The highest ranked architect, engineer, landscape architect, construction manager, or land surveyor will be submitted to the Board for approval. District administration will negotiate with the approved architect, engineer, landscape architect, construction manager, or land surveyor a fee that is fair and reasonable.

In accordance with Idaho Code 67-2320(2)(h) and the aforementioned selection and approval process, district administration may also create a list of preapproved architects, engineers, landscape architects, construction managers, or land surveyors for a period not to exceed two (2) years. For any district facilities project, district administration may negotiate a fee that is fair and reasonable with any preapproved provider from these lists.

